送行（4）
On a cold grey morning of last week I duly turned up at Euston, to see off an old friend who was starting for America.
Overnight, we had given him a farewell dinner, in which sadness was well mingled with festivity3. Years probably would elapse before his return. Some of us might never see him again. Not ignoring the shadow of the future, we gaily celebrated the past. We were as thankful to have known our guest as we were grieved to lose him; and both these emotions were made manifest. It was a perfect farewell.
And now, here we were, stiff and self-conscious on the platform; and framed in the window of the railway-carriage was the face of our friend; but it was as the face of a stranger—a stranger anxious to please, an appealing stranger, an awkward stranger. “Have you got everything?” asked one of us, breaking a silence. “Yes, everything,” said our friend, with a pleasant nod. “Everything,” he repeated, with the emphasis of an empty brain. “You’ll be able to lunch on the train,” said I, though the prophecy had already been made more than once. “Oh, yes, he said with conviction. He added that the train went straight through to Liverpool. This fact seemed to strike us as rather odd. We exchanged glances.“Doesn’t it stop at Crewe?” asked one of us. “No,” said our friend, briefly. He seemed almost disagreeable. There was along pause. One of us, with a nod and a forced smile at the traveler, said “Well!” The nod, the smile and the unmeaning monosyllable, were returned conscientiously. Another pause was broken by one of us with a fit of coughing. It was an obviously assumed fit, but it served to pass the time. The bustle of the platform was unabated. There was no sign of the train’s departure. Release—ours, and our friend’s—was not yet.
My wandering eye alighted on a rather portly middle-aged man who was talking earnestly from the platform to a young lady at the next window but one to ours. His fine profile was vaguely4 familiar to me. The young lady was evidently American, and he was evidently English; otherwise I should have guessed from his impressive air that he was her father. I wished I could hear what he was saying. I was sure he was giving the very best advice; and the strong tenderness of his gaze was really beautiful. He seemed magnetic, as he poured out his final injunctions. I could feel something of his magnetism even where I stood. And the magnetism, like the profile, was vaguely familiar to me. Where had I experienced it?
In a flash I remembered. The man was Hubert Le Ros. But how changed since last I saw him! That was seven or eight years ago, in the Strand. He was then (as usual) out of an engagement, and borrowed half-a-crown. It seemed a privilege to lend anything to him. He was always magnetic. And why his magnetism5 had never made him successful on the London stage was always a mystery to me. He was an excellent actor, and a man of sober habit. But, like many others of his kind, Hubert Le Ros (I do not, of course, give the actual name by which he was known) drifted speedily away into the provinces; and I, like every one else, ceased to remember him.
送行（5）
It was strange to see him, after all these years, here on the platform of Euston, looking so prosperous and solid. It was not only the flesh that he had put on, but also the clothes, that made him hard to recognize. In the old days, an imitation fur coat had seemed to be as integral a part of him as were his ill-shorn lantern jaws. But now his costume was a model of rich and somber moderation, drawing, not calling, attention to itself. He looked like a banker. Any one could have been proud to be seen off by him.
“Stand back, please!” The train was about to start, and I waved farewell to my friend. Le Ros did not stand back. He stood clasping in both hands the hands of the young American. “Stand back, sir, please!” He obeyed, but quickly darted forward again to whisper some final word. I think there were tears in her eyes. There certainly were tears in his when, at length, having watched the train out of sight, he turned round. He seemed, nevertheless, delighted to see me. He asked me where I had been hiding all these years; and simultaneously repaid me the half-crown as though it had been borrowed yesterday. He linked his arm in mine, and walked with me slowly along the platform, saying with what pleasure he read my dramatic criticisms every Saturday.
I told him, in return, how much he was missed on the stage. “Ah, yes,” he said, “I never act on the stage nowadays.” He laid some emphasis on the word “stage”, and I asked him where, then, he did act. “On the platform,” He answered. “You mean,” said I, “that you recite at concerts?” He smiled. “This,” he whispered, striking his stick on the ground, “is the platform I mean.” Had his mysterious prosperity unhinged him? He looked quite sane. I begged him to be more explicit6.
“I suppose,” he said presently, giving me a light for the cigar which he had offered me, “you have been seeing a friend off?” I assented. He asked me what I supposed he had been doing. I said that I had watched him doing the same thing.“No,” he said gravely. “That lady was not a friend of mine. I met her for the first time this morning, less than half an hour ago, here.” and again he struck the platform with his stick.
I confessed that I was bewildered. He smiled. “You may,” he said, “have heard of the Anglo-American Social Bureau?” I had not. He explained to me that of the thousands of Americans who annually pass through England there are many hundreds who have no English friends. In the old days they used to bring letters of introduction. But the English are so inhospitable that these letters are hardly worth the paper they are written on. “Thus,” said Le Ros, “the , and most of them have plenty of money to spend. The , alas! A director. If I were, I should be a very rich man indeed. I am only an employee. But even so I do very well. I am one of the seers-off.”
青春
[犹太]塞缪尔·乌尔曼
■
塞缪尔·乌尔曼（1840—1920），犹太人，出生于德国，1851年随家人移民到美国密西西比。乌尔曼虽以教育家和社会活动家而闻名于世，但在文学创作方面也很有才华。他的《青春》因为麦克阿瑟将军的推崇而广为传颂。
青春不是年华，而是一种心态；不是玫瑰般的脸庞，红润的嘴唇和敏捷的双腿，而是坚韧的意志，丰富的想象力，以及无穷的激情；青春是生命深处的一股清泉。
青春意味着勇气多于怯懦，青春意味着喜欢冒险而讨厌安逸。拥有此种品质的人之中，60岁的老人往往多于20岁的年轻人。没有人只因年龄的增长而年老，人们往往因放弃理想而年老。
岁月可使肌肤长满皱纹，但放弃激情可使心灵布满灰尘。焦虑、疑惑、猜疑、恐惧和沮丧——都会挫伤心灵，磨损意志。
不管是白发老人还是青春少年，每个人的心里皆有其喜欢之新奇事物，对星星和类似星星的东西皆有好奇之心，敢于挑战，对未知事物的孩子般的渴求之心，乐于享受生活带来的乐趣。
我们因充满信心而变得年轻；因心存疑虑而变得年老；因自信而年轻，因心存恐惧而年老；因充满希望而年轻，因满怀沮丧而年老。
人人心里都有一座无线电台，只要接收到来自地球、人类和宇宙的美好、希望、勇气、庄严及力量，就会变得年轻。
当心灵的天线倒下，心如大雪般悲观、如冰块般愤世嫉俗时，那时，唯有那时，我们将真正老去。
Youth
Samuel Ullman
Youth is not entirely a time of life; it is a state of mind; it is not a matter of rosy cheeks, red lips and supple knees; it is a temper of the will, a quality of the imagination, a vigor of the emotions; it is the freshness of the deep springs of life.
Youth means the temperamental predominance of courage over timidity, of the appetite of adventure over the love of ease. This often exists in a man of sixty more than in a boy of twenty. Nobody grows old by merely living a number of years. We grow old by deserting our ideals.
Years may wrinkle the skin, but to give up enthusiasm wrinkles the soul. Worry, doubt, self-distrust, fear and despair—these bow the heart and turn the spirit back to dust.
Whether sixty or sixteen, there is in every human being’s heart the love of wonder, the sweet amazement at the stars and the star like things, the undaunted challenge of events, the unfailing child-like appetite for what-next, and the joy of the game of living.
You are as young as your faith, as old as your doubt; as young as your self-confidence, as old as your fear; as young as your hope, as old as your despair.
In the central place of your heart there is a wireless station, so long as it receives message of beauty, hope, courage, grandeur and power from the earth, from man and from the Infinite, so long are you young.
When the wires are all down, and all the central places of your heart are covered with the snows of pessimism and the ice of cynicism, then, and only then, are you grown old indeed.
送行（6）
Again I asked for enlightenment. “Many Americans,” he said, “cannot afford to keep friends in England. But they can all afford to be seen off. The fee is only five pounds (twenty-five dollars) for a single traveller; and eight pounds (forty dollars) for a party of two or more. They send that in to the Bureau, giving the date of their departure, and a description by which the seer-off can identify them on the platform. And then—well, then they are seen off.”
“But is it worth？” I exclaimed. “Of course it is worth it,” said Le Ros. “It prevents them from feeling ‘out of it.’ It earns them the respect of the guard. It saves them from being despised by their fellow-passengers—the people who are going to be on the boat. It gives them a footing for the whole voyage. Besides, it is a great pleasure in itself. You saw me seeing that young lady off. Didn’t you think I did it beautifully?”“Beautifully,” I admitted. “I envied you. There was I—”“Yes, I can imagine. There were you, shuffling from head to foot, staring blankly at your friend, trying to make conversation. I know. That’s how I used to be myself, before I studied, and went into the thing professionally. I don’t say I’m perfect yet. I’m still a martyr to platform fright. A railway station is the most difficult of all places to act in, as you have discovered for yourself.”“But,” I said with resentment, “I wasn’t trying to act. I really felt.”“so did I, my boy,” said Le Ros. “You can’t act without feeling. What’s-his-name, the Frenchman—Diderot, yes—said you could; but what did he know about it? Didn’t you see those tears in my eyes when the train started? I hadn’t forced them. I tell you I was moved. So were you, I dare say. But you couldn’t have pumped up a tear to prove it. You can’t express your feelings. In other words, you can’t act. At any rate,” he added kindly, “not in a railway station.”“Teach me!” I cried. He looked thoughtfully at me. “Well,” he said at length, “the seeing-off season is practically over. Yes, I’ll give you a course. I have a good many pupils on hand already; but yes,” he said, consulting an ornate notebook, “I could give you an hour on Tuesdays and Fridays.”
His terms, I confess, are rather high. But I don’t grudge the investment.
赫拉克勒斯的选择（2）
■
在赫拉克勒斯的著名选择——选择劳作，不贪图享乐中，他明白了大多数人都不能发现的一种观点。他明白，选择劳作就是选择了美德，也因此选择了幸福。我们知道，当赫拉克勒斯走上美德和劳作的道路时，真正的幸福就会来到他身边。
The Choice of Hercules
Anonymous
In his famous choice of labor over pleasure, Hercules sees a distinction far too many fail to discern. He sees that to choose labor is to choose virtue, and thereby happiness. It is important to note, however, that happiness is not his goal; it is rather a result of his dedication to labor. It’s a crucial point. Many people pursue pleasure as an end because they believe, as the personification of pleasure says in this story, that ease is the state in which “you shall not want for anything that makes life joyous.” But even if you attain that kind of pleasure, something fundamental is missing—the satisfaction of the soul that comes only through human striving. We know true happiness will come to Hercules as we see him set off down the road of Virtue and Labor.
When Hercules was a fair-faced youth, and life was all before him, he went out one morning to do an errand for his stepfather. But as he walked his heart was full of bitter thoughts; and he murmured because others no better than himself were living in ease and pleasure, while for him there was naught but a life of labor and pain.
As he thought upon these things, he came to a place where two roads met; and he stopped, not certain which one to take.
The road on his right was hilly and rough. There was no beauty in it or about it, but he saw that it led straight toward the blue mountains in the far distance.
The road on his left was broad and smooth, with shade trees on either side, where sang an innumerable choir of birds; and it went winding among green meadows, where bloomed countless flowers. But it ended in fog and mist long before it reached the wonderful blue mountains in the distance.
While the lad stood in doubt as to these roads, he saw two fair women coming toward him, each on a different road. The one who came by the flowery way reached him first, and Hercules saw that she was as beautiful as a summer day.
Her cheeks were red, her eyes sparkled; she spoke warm, persuasive words. “O noble youth,” she said, “be no longer bowed down with labor and sore trials, but come and follow me. I will lead you into pleasant paths, where there are no storms to disturb and no troubles to annoy. You shall live in ease, with one unending round of music and mirth; and you shall not want for anything that makes life joyous—sparkling wine, or soft couches, or rich robes, or the loving eyes of beautiful maidens. Come with me, and life shall be to you a daydream of gladness.”
By this time the other fair woman had drawn near, and she now spoke to the lad. “I have nothing to promise you,” said she, “save that which you shall win with your own strength. The road upon which I would lead you is uneven and hard, and climbs many a hill, and descends into many a valley and quagmire. The views which you will sometimes get from the hilltops are grand and glorious, but the deep valleys are dark, and the ascent from them is toilsome.
真实的高贵
[美国]欧内斯特·海明威
■
欧内斯特·海明威（1899—1961），20世纪美国著名小说家，生于伊利诺伊州芝加哥市郊。他的作品风格独具魅力，在世界范围内产生了广泛影响。1926年发表的《太阳照样升起》是海明威获得声誉的第一部长篇小说，并成为“迷惘的一代”的代表作品。一战给海明威留下了难以愈合的心灵创伤，并为他创作举世名作《永别了，武器》提供了素材。1952年，中篇小说《老人与海》出版，轰动文坛，并使他获得了诺贝尔文学奖。
风平浪静的大海上，每个人都是领航员。
但是，只有阳光而无阴影，只有欢乐而无痛苦，那就不是人生。以最幸福的人的生活为例——它是一团纠缠在一起的麻线。丧亲之痛和幸福祝愿，彼此相接，让我们一会儿伤心一会儿高兴。甚至死亡本身也会使生命更加可亲。在人生的清醒时刻，在哀痛和伤心的阴影之下，人们与真实的自我最接近。
在人生或者职业的各种事务中，性格的作用比智力大得多，头脑的作用不如心情，天资不如由判断力所节制着的自制、耐心和规律。
我始终相信，开始在内心生活得更严肃的人，也会在外表上开始生活得更朴素。在一个奢华浪费的年代，我希望能向世界表明，人类真正需要的东西是非常之少的。
悔恨自己的错误，而且力求不再重蹈覆辙，这才是真正的悔悟。优于别人，并不高贵。真正的高贵应该是优于过去的自己。
True Nobility
Ernest Hemingway
In a calm sea every man is a pilot1.
But all sunshine without shade, all pleasure without pain—is not life at all. Take the lot of the happiest—it is a tangled yarn2. Bereavements and blessings, one following another, make us sad and blessed by turns. Even death itself makes life more loving. Men come closest to their true selves in the sober3 moments of life, under the shadows of sorrow and loss.
In the affairs of life or of business, it is not intellect that tells so much as character, not brains so much as heart, not genius so much as self-control, patience, and discipline, regulated by judgment.
I have always believed that the man who has begun to live more seriously within begins to live more simply without. In an age of extravagance and waste, I wish I could show to the world how few the real wants of humanity are.
To regret one’s errors to the point of not repeating them is true repentance.
There is nothing noble in being superior to some other man. The true nobility is in being superior to your previous self.
论青年与老年
[英国]弗兰西斯·培根
■
弗兰西斯·培根（1561—1626），英国著名的唯物主义哲学家和科学家。在文艺复兴时期的巨人中，他被尊称为哲学史和科学史上划时代的人物。马克思称他是“英国唯物主义和整个现代实验科学的真正始祖。”他是第一个提出“知识就是力量”的人。培根是近代哲学史上首先提出经验论原则的哲学家，对近代科学的建立起了积极的推动作用，对人类哲学史、科学史都作出了重大的历史贡献。罗素尊称培根为“给科学研究程序进行逻辑组织化的先驱”。
一个人假使不曾虚度生活，年岁不大也可以表现得成熟老练，只不过这种情况少有发生罢了。深思未必出自风霜，岁月同样可见年轻，可一般的青年毕竟谋划不过长辈，智慧也不及他们少年老成的同龄人。
但青年的创造性更为丰富，想象力也如涌泉一样奔放灵活，这似乎更得益于神助。天性刚烈、心怀热望、情绪敏感的人不历经中年，行事总是青涩，恺撒和塞维拉斯即为例证……
青年擅长创造却缺乏判断，擅长行动却缺乏商讨，擅长革新却缺乏对经验的借鉴。日积月累的经验可以引导他们掌握旧事物，但也会遮盖他们看见新事物的视线。
青年人犯错往往毁坏大局，而老年人的错则是迈步太小或行动太缓。无论谋事还是操行，青年都骛远喜功，基调高，动幅大，好走极端；他们藐视前例，目空一切，革新的勇气绰绰有余，而欠方式和分寸上的考虑，结果反而招致意外的麻烦。他们有如不羁的野马，行事极端而不知自救，一旦开蹄犯错，就泻至千里，不可复回。老年人呢，他们顾忌太多，议论过长，宁求安稳，不愿冒险，总是满足于平平成绩而不向往极至的辉煌。毫无疑问，最好是将两者特点结合。就现在来说，青年和老年可以互相取长补短。就发展来说，老年人是主事者，而青年可以学习取经。最后就社会来说，老年人以权威之姿指引方向，青年人则能振奋民心、鼓舞士气。但如果从政治上讲，老人的阅历是珍贵的，那么，青年人的纯真则在人性中熠熠闪光。
Of Youth and Age
Francis Bacon
A man that is young in years, may be old in hours, if he have lost no time. But that happened rarely. Generally, youth is like the first cogitations, not so wise as the second. For there is a youth in thoughts, as well as in ages.
And yet the invention of young men, is more lively than that of old; and imaginations stream into their minds better, and, as it were, more divinely. Natures that have much heat, and great and violent desires and perturbations, are not ripe for action, till they have passed the meridian of their years; as it was with Julius Caesar and Septimius Severus...
Young men are fitter to invent, than to judge; fitter for execution, than for counsel; and fitter for new projects, than for settled business. For the experience of age, in things that fall within the compass of it, directeth them; but in new things, abuseth them.
The errors of young men, are the ruin of business; but the errors of aged men, amount but to this, that more might have been done, or sooner. Young men, in the conduct and manage of actions, embrace more than they can hold; stir more than they can quiet; fly to the end, without consideration of the means and degrees；pursue some few principles, which they have chanced upon absurdly care not to innovate, which draws unknown inconveniences; use extreme remedies at first; and, that which doubleth all errors, will not acknowledge or retract them; like an unready horse, that will neither stop nor turn. Men of age object too much, consult too long, adventure too little, repent too soon, and seldom drive business home to the full period, but content themselves with a mediocrity of success. Certainly it is good to compound employments of both; for that will be good for the present, because the virtues of either age, may correct the defects of both; and good for succession, that young men may be learners, while men in age are actors; and, lastly, good for extern accidents, because authority followeth old men, and favor and popularity, youth. But for the moral part, perhaps youth will have the pre-eminence, as age hath for the politic.
赫拉克勒斯的选择（3）
Nevertheless, the road leads to the blue mountains of endless fame, which you see far away on the horizon. They cannot be reached without labor; in fact, there is nothing worth having that must not be won by toil. If you would have fruits and flowers, you must plant them and care for them; if you would gain the love of your fellow men, you must love them and suffer for them; if you would enjoy the favor of heaven, you must make yourself worthy of that favor; if you would have eternal fame, you must not scorn the hard road that leads to it.”
Then Hercules saw that this lady, although she was as beautiful as the other, had a countenance pure and gentle, like the sky on a balmy morning in May.
“What is your name?” he asked.
“Some call me Labor,” she answered, “but others know me as Virtue.”
Then he turned to the first lady. “And what is your name?” he asked.
“Some call me Pleasure,” she said, with bewitching smile, “but I choose to be known as the Joyous and Happy One.”
“Virtue,” said Hercules, “I will take thee as my guide! The road of labor and honest effort shall be mine, and my heart shall no longer cherish bitterness or discontent.”
And he put his hand into that of Virtue, and entered with her upon the straight and forbidding road which leads to the fair blue mountains on the pale and distant horizon.
快乐谷
[英国]塞缪尔·约翰逊
■
塞缪尔·约翰逊 (1709—1784),英国词典编纂家、散文家和文学评论家。他一生穷困潦倒，直到历时九载编纂完成《英语词典》，才声名大振。他才学广博，言谈睿智。诗歌代表作《人类欲望的虚妄》反映了他对人生的独到见解，传记《英国诗人传》坚持以事实作传，把英语传记文学推向更高的水平。
他说:“人和其他动物的区别在哪里?在我身旁游走的每个野兽，和我一样都有肉体上的需要:饿了吃草，渴了喝溪水，充饥解渴后将满足地睡去；醒来又饿了，再吃饱休息。我和他一样也会饥渴，但不渴也不饿时，我不休息；我也像他一样因需求匮乏而痛苦，但不像他因需求丰裕而满足。中间这个阶段，冗长而又乏味；我又开始渴望饥饿，好再次加大自己的注意力。鸟儿啄食着浆果或谷物，好像非常快乐地飞到树丛中，停靠在树枝上，并且百无聊赖地吟唱着一成不变的曲调。同样地，我也能叫来琵琶手和歌手，但昨天还能使我愉悦的乐章，今天却令我厌烦，明天变得更令人厌倦。我从自身发现，没有一种感受力不是被适度愉悦充满的，但是我不觉得自己快乐。确实，人类有某种潜在的感觉，会告知自己这个地方不能令人愉悦，或者，在快乐之前，他有一些有别于感觉的渴望，必须先得到满足。”
The Happy Valley
Samuel Johnson
“What,” said he, “makes the difference between man and all the rest of the animal creation? Every beast that strays beside me has the same corporal necessities with myself, he is hungry, and crops the grass, he is thirsty, and drinks the stream, his thirst and hunger are appeased, he is satisfied and sleeps; he rises again and he is hungry, he is again fed and is at rest. I am hungry and thirsty like him, but when thirst and hunger cease I am not at rest; I am, like him, pained with want, but I am not, like him, satisfied with fullness. The intermediate hours are tedious and gloomy; I long again to be hungry that I may again quicken my attention. The birds peck the berries or the corn, and fly away to the groves where they sit in seeming happiness on the branches, and waste their lives in tuning one unvaried series of sounds. I likewise can call the lutanist and the singer, but the sounds that pleased me yesterday weary me today, and will grow yet more wearisome tomorrow. I can discover within me no power of perception which is not glutted with its proper pleasure, yet I do not feel myself delighted. Man has surely some latent sense for which this place affords no gratification, or he has some desires distinct from sense which must be satisfied before he can be happy.”
*与丑腿（1）
[美国]本杰明·富兰克林
■
本杰明·富兰克林（1706—1790），18世纪美国最伟大的科学家，著名的政治家和文学家。他生于北美洲的波士顿，幼年家境贫穷，一生只受过两年正式教育。8岁入学，10岁辍学，此后又当了近10年的印刷工人。但他从未间断过自学，从自然科学、技术方面的读物到著名科学家的论文以及名家作品无不涉猎。
1726年，他出版了《穷查理历书》，当时被译成12种文字，畅销欧美各国，也奠定了他在文学史上的地位。独立战争爆发后，他参加了第二届大陆会议和《独立宣言》的起草工作。
1790年4月17日，深夜11点，富兰克林溘然逝去。他一生最真实的写照是他自己说过的一句话“诚实和勤勉，应该成为你永久的伴侣。”本文是作者于1780年创作的，当时他正在法国为国事奔走，却仍然有闲情雅致写这种轻松的文章，此文足以窥见作者美国式的幽默和机智。
这世上有两种人，他们拥有同样的健康、财富以及其他生活上的享受，但是，一种人快乐，另一种人却烦恼。这很大程度上来源于他们对事物观点的不同，比如对人和对事，因此产生了快乐和烦恼的分歧。
人无论处于什么境地，总是会遇到“幸”或“不幸”。不管在什么场合，接触到的人和进行的交流，总有让他开心或烦心的；无论在什么样的餐桌前吃饭，酒肉总有对味和不对味的，餐具也总有精致和粗糙的；无论在什么气候下，他们总能遭遇好天气和坏天气；无论哪个政府统治，法律条文总有好坏之分；再伟大的诗句或著作中，总能挑出精彩的和平庸的；差不多每一个人的脸上，都有美丽和难看的地方，每一个人，也总有优点和缺点。
在这种情况下，上面所说的两种人注重的东西刚好相反。快乐的人，总是看着事物的长处：交谈中愉快的部分，食物的精致，酒的美味，美好的天气等等，并且满心欢喜地享受这一切。那些不快乐的人，却站在对立的一面，因此他们总是对自己不满意，他们说的话在社交场合很扫兴，既得罪了别人，也让自己闷闷不乐。如果这种性格与生俱来，那么真值得同情；可是如果是盲目模仿别人，最后不知不觉成了习惯的，那么他们应该清楚这种恶习将对他们幸福的人生产生怎样的影响，即使这种恶习已经很顽固，也还是可以根除的。我希望这点忠告可以给他们一点儿帮助，改变这一不好的习惯。或许这习惯主要作用于心理上，但是却能给生活造成恶劣的影响，带来一些现实的悲伤与不幸。因为总是得罪人，大家都不喜欢他，顶多演示一些必不可少的礼节，甚至连最起码的尊重都不会给他。这会使他们的生活缺乏情趣，而且会引起各种矛盾和争执。如果他们想增加财富，没有人会祝福他们好运，没有人愿意为他们出谋划策。如果他们招致公众的责难和羞辱，也没有人出来为他们辩护或谅解，有的人甚至夸大其辞地攻击他们，使他们变得更讨厌。如果这些人不改变这些坏习惯，对那些人们认为美好的事物不屑一顾，一天到晚怨天尤人，那么大家还是少和他接触好，因为这种人很难相处，而且当你卷进他们的争吵中，你会有更大的麻烦。
我有一个哲学家老朋友，经历过很多人情世故，按照他的阅历，行为谨慎，尽量避免和这种人打交道。和其他哲学家一样，他也有一个显示气温的温度计和一个预报天气好坏的气压计；但世上没有人发明一种仪器可以预测人的这种坏习惯，因此，他就利用自己的两条腿来测验。他的一条腿长得很好看，另一条腿因为意外事故而成了畸形。如果陌生人初见他时，对他的丑腿比对他的美腿更专注，那么他就会有所疑虑。如果那人只谈论那条丑腿，而不注意他的好腿，那我的朋友就会很快决定不再与他深交。不是每个人都有这样一双腿作为测量仪器，但只要稍加留意，每个人都能看出点那种挑三拣四的人的劣迹，从而避免和这种人交往。所以，我奉劝那些爱挑剔、爱发牢骚、整天愁眉苦脸的人，如果想受人尊敬并且想自己找乐子的人，就不要总是盯着别人的丑腿看。
关于扫帚柄的沉思
[英国]乔纳森·斯威夫特
■
乔纳森·斯威夫特（1667—1745）,英国政论家、散文家和小说家，被认为是英语世界最杰出的讽刺作家之一。斯威夫特生于爱尔兰都柏林，父母均是定居爱尔兰的英格兰人。他一生积极参与政治活动，写下一系列笔锋辛辣、脍炙人口的政论文章，代表作有政论文《一个温和的建议》和讽刺语言小说《格列佛游记》。后者在全世界广为传诵，并被搬上银幕。
这把孤零零的扫帚柄，你别看它现在无精打采地躲在阴暗的角落里，以前我在树林里见过风华正茂的它，那会儿它还是活力充沛，苍翠欲滴，树枝繁密。而如今，有些故意找事的人，他们在它没有汁液的树干上缚上了一把枯枝，企图凭借自己的一技之长来胜过大自然，这也不过是徒劳。它现在最多不过是颠倒乾坤的一棵树，树枝在地，树根朝天，完全改变了先前的上下位置。每一个干苦活粗活的低微女佣都可以使用扫帚柄。扫帚柄拥有反复无常的命运，它不得不去扮演一个角色：把别的东西打扫得一尘不染，结果把自己搞得污秽不堪。最终，在为女佣们多次服务之后，自己破损得只剩下一根残干。它们的结局，要么是被扫地出门，要么是成为引火柴。我看到这一过程，禁不住一声长叹，自言自语道：“毫无疑问，人生也就是这么一根扫帚柄!”大自然让他精力充沛、朝气蓬勃地来到人世间，一出生就长着一头秀发，如同富有理性、枝叶茂盛的一株植物，可是没过多久，他那密密麻麻的树枝便被贪杯酗酒这柄利斧砍掉，唯一剩下的就是一根枯萎的树干。他赶紧去借助人的智慧，用假发代替，并且还为戴了一头扑满香粉的假发颇为得意，而不在乎是不是生来俱有。可是，假如现在我们这把扫帚柄也打扮成这样：满身灰尘，还为身上捆绑了别人的枝条得意扬扬。这样，即便那灰尘来自于最尊贵的妇人的闺房，我们也会嘲笑、鄙视它的空虚。对于我们自己的优点和别人的缺点，我们就是有失偏颇的法官。
你或许会说，一把扫帚柄不过只是一棵颠倒的树而已。那么，恳切地问一句，人是什么？人不同样是首足倒置的一个生灵吗？他的兽性一直胜过理性，头跑到了原本属于脚后跟的地方，匍匐于地！更重要的是，虽然毛病多多，他却依然认为自己是普天之下的改革者、兴利除弊者、为民伸冤者。在世界的角落里搜寻人间污垢，让大家知道一大堆不为人知的腐败，原本一尘不染的地方让他们变得乌烟瘴气。他装着要把“垃圾”清除干净，自己却同流合污。在自己生命的最后时光里，他最终成了女人的奴隶，而且通常是最不值得的女人。结果同他的扫帚兄弟一样，耗费得只剩下一根残干，不是被扫地出门，就是引火烧身，让别人取暖。
■
一把扫帚柄的命运是如此的无奈，不管它曾经是多么的辉煌，最终都会作为引火的柴，这又是何等的悲凉呢？其实人生也就是这么一把扫帚柄!
A Meditation upon a Broomstick
Jonathan Swift
This single stick, which you now behold ingloriously lying in that neglected corner, I once knew in a flourishing1 state in a forest; it was full of sap, full of leaves, and full of boughs; but now, in vain does the busy art of man pretend to vie2 with nature, by tying that withered bundle of twigs to its sapless trunk; ‘tis now, at best, but the reverse of what it was, a tree turned upside down, the branches on the earth, and the root in the air; ‘tis now handled by every dirty wenchs, condemned to do her drudgery, and, by a capricious kind of fate, destined to make other things clean, and be nasty itself: at length, worn to the stumps in the service of the maids, it is either thrown out of door, or condemned to the last use of kindling a fire. When I beheld this I sighed, and said within myself, surely man is a Broomstick!Nature sent him into the world strong and lusty, in a thriving condition, wearing his own hair on his head, the proper branches of this reasoning vegetable, until the axe of intemperance has lopped off his green boughs, and left him a withered trunk; he then flies to art, and puts on a periwig , valuing himself upon an unnatural bundle of hairs (all covered with powder) that never grew on his head; but now, should this our broomstick pretend to enter the scene, proud of those birchen spoils it never bore, and all covered with dust, though the sweepings of the finest lady’s chamber3, we should be apt to ridicule and despise its vanity. Partial judges that we are of our own excellencies4, and other men’s defaults!
But a broomstick, perhaps, you will say, is an emblem5 of a tree standing on its head; and pray what is man, but a topsy-turvy creature, his animal faculties perpetually mounted on his rational, his head where his heels should be, groveling on the earth! and yet, with all his faults, he sets up to be a universal reformer and corrector of abuses, a remover of grievances6, rakes into every slut’s corner of Nature, bringing hidden corruption to the light, and raises a mighty dust where there was none before, sharing deeply all the while in the very same pollutions he pretends to sweep away: his last days are spent in slavery to women, and generally the least deserving, till, worn out to the stumps, like his brother besom, he is either kicked out of doors, or made use of to kindle flames for others to warm themselves by.
送行（1）
[英国]麦克斯·毕尔勃姆
■
麦克斯·毕尔勃姆（1872—1956），英国著名讽刺画家、散文家和剧评家，曾就读于牛津大学。除擅长绘画外，他还写过不少散文，并取得了较高的成就。后来继萧伯纳任《星期六评论》剧评专栏作者达12年之久，晚年移居美国直到去世。
我不会送行。它可是我所认为的世上最难做好的事情之一。对此，你大概也心有同感。
送一位朋友从滑铁卢去渥克斯厅可以说是一件相当简单的事。但你从来就接不到这种轻松活儿。我们只有当朋友要远行，离去的时间又比较长久时，才被召唤亲赴车站送行。朋友交情越好，送的路程越远，朋友离去的时间越长，我们就越早到达车站，相应地，我们遭遇的失败也就越为惨烈。这种失败的程度恰恰与场合的正式以及感情的深厚程度成正比。
屋内话别已十分体面，甚至在门前台阶也不错。我们脸上的表情书写着真切的忧伤，言语里透出恋恋不舍之情，主客双方不觉尴尬或拘谨，亲密友谊更是丝毫无损。如此的送别真可谓完美。可我们怎么就不懂到了这种程度就应该罢休呢?通常情况下，即将远行的友人们总是恳求我们次日早晨不要再赶到车站。但我们知道那不一定是真心话，便也就不听信那些劝说的话，还是奔向车站。假若真的听信了朋友们的话，并且照着做了，他们说不定心里还会责怪呢。何况，他们也确实希望能和我们再见上一面。于是我们也就按时到达，真诚地去回应朋友的愿望。但结果却，结果却，陡然生出一道鸿沟！我们伸手，可怎么也无法超越，谁也够不着谁。我们哑口无言，像愚笨的动物痴望人类一样面面相觑。我们“找些话题来说”——但哪里有什么话好说的！大家都心知肚明，离别之景昨夜就已上演了一遍。人还是昨晚的那些人，但从表面上看，所有的又都变了。气氛是如此紧张，我们都盼望着列车员赶紧鸣笛，及早结束这场闹剧。
上周一个冷清阴沉的早晨，我准点赶到奥斯顿送一位去美国的朋友。
头一天晚上，我们已经摆设筵席为他饯行，席间分手的离情和聚会的喜庆掌握得恰到好处。他这一去可能就是多年，席上有些人恐怕今世也难得再见他面。虽然说不上完全不受未来所投下的阴影的影响，可我们还是兴高采烈，畅叙了往日情谊。我们既为认识这位朋友而感谢命运，同时又因他的行将离别而遗憾不已。此两种情怀欣然体现，昨晚的离别真是完美！
可现在呢，我们在站台上，行为僵硬，极不自然，友人的面孔嵌在车厢窗框中，却宛然属于一个陌生人——一个急于讨人欢心的陌生人，一个情意真切但却又举止笨拙的陌生人。“东西都带齐了吧?”送行的人中有一个打破了沉默。“对，都带齐了。”我们的朋友愉快地点了点头，答道。“都齐了。”紧接着的这再次重复更加明显地暴露出此刻他头脑的空空如也。“那你得在火车上吃午饭了，”我说道，尽管这个预言远非是第一次被提出。“啊，是的。”他用确定的语气回答，然后又告诉大家，列车将中途不停直达利物浦。这句新加上的话似乎就带来了惊讶。我们彼此对视。“在克鲁也不停吗?”一个人问道。“不停。”朋友回答得简短，甚至都有些不悦了。较长一阵时间的停顿过后，有个人对我们的朋友回了句“行”，与此同时还点着头，做强颜欢笑状。于是，车外每个人那般点头，吐出那个莫名其妙的单音词“行”，以表谢意。沉默再次接踵而至，多亏我们中的一位干咳了几声打破这沉闷的寂静——那咳嗽当然是假装出来的，但它们却恰到好处地拖延了时间。列车似乎没有立即出发的迹象，站台上还是乱哄哄的。关于解除送别紧张的气氛——无论于送客的，还是于被送的——这个时刻还没有到来。
*与丑腿（2）
■
这世上有两种人，他们拥有同样的健康、财富以及其他生活上的享受，但是，一种人快乐，另一种人却烦恼。这很大程度上来源于他们对事物观点的不同，比如对人和对事，因此产生了快乐和烦恼的分歧。
The Handsome and Deformed Leg
Benjamin Franklin
There are two Sorts of People in the World, who with equal Degrees of Health, ＆ Wealth, and the other Comforts of Life, become, the one happy, and the other miserable. This arises very much from the different Views in which they consider Things, Persons, and Events; and the Effect of those different Views upon their own Minds.
In whatever Situation Men can be placed, they may find Conveniencies ＆ Inconveniencies: In whatever Company; they may find Persons ＆ Conversation more or less pleasing. At whatever Table, they may meet with Meats ＆ Drinks of better and worse Taste, Dishes better ＆ worse dress’d: In whatever Climate they will find good and bad Weather: Under whatever Government, they may find good ＆ bad Laws, and good ＆ bad Administration of those Laws. In every Poem or Work of Genius they may see Faults and Beauties. In almost every Face ＆ every Person, they may discover fine Features ＆ Defects, good ＆ bad Qualities.
Under these Circumstances, the two Sorts of People above mention’d fix their Attention, those who are to be happy, on the Conveniencies of Things, the pleasant Parts of Conversation, the well-dress’d Dishes, the Goodness of the Wines, the fine Weather; ＆ c., and enjoy all with Chearfulness. Those who are to be unhappy think ＆ speak only of the contraries. Hence they are continually discontented themselves, and by their Remarks sour the Pleasures of Society, offend personally many People, and make themselves everywhere disagreeable. If this Turn of Mind was founded in Nature, such unhappy Persons would be the more to be pitied. But as the Disposition to criticize, ＆ be disgusted, is perhaps taken up originally by Imitation, and is unawares grown into a Habit, which tho’ at present strong may nevertheless be cured when those who have it are convinc’d of its bad Effects on their Felicity; I hope this little Admonition may be of Service to them, and put them on changing a Habit, which tho’in the Exercise it is chiefly an Act of Imagination yet has serious Consequences in Life, as it brings on real Griefs and Misfortunes. For as many are offended by, ＆ nobody well loves this Sort of People, no one shows them more than the most common civility and respect, and scarcely that; and this frequently puts them out of humour, and draws them into disputes and contentions. If they aim at obtaining some advantage in rank of fortune, nobody wishes them success, or will stir a step, or speak a word, to favour their pretensions. If they incur public censure or disgrace, no one will defend or excuse, and many join to aggravate their misconduct, and tender them completely odious. If these people will not change this bad habit, and condescend to be pleased with what is pleasing, without fretting themselves and others about the contraries, it is good for others to avoid an acquaintance with them; which is always disagreeable, and sometimes very inconvenient, especially when one finds one’s self entangled in their quarrels.
哨子（1）
[美国]本杰明·富兰克林
我敬爱的朋友，我已经收到你的两封来信，周三、周六各一封。时光飞逝，一眨眼又到了周三。我今天不再祈求收到你的来信，因为以前的信，我还没来得及回复。我承认自己懒惰，又不爱写信，可是如果不回信的话，我又怕自己再也收不到你那令人开心的来信。想到这里，我便不得不拿起笔来了。B先生好心地告诉我，他想明日去你的家中拜访，而不是在今天晚上。坐在桌前心里想着与你快乐的接触，我整个晚上都在想念你，给你写回信，并反复阅读你的来信。
我着迷于你对天堂的描述，羡慕你去那里生活的计划，并认可你的大部分观点，在这样的基础上，我们同时一定要最大限度地从这个世界中吸取所有的善。在我看来，如果我们注意不在哨子上付出太大的代价，我们很有可能从这个世界吸取更多的善，遭受更少的恶。因为对我来说，我们所见过的闷闷不乐的人中，大部分是由于对这一警示不予理睬酿成了大祸。
你或许会问，我说的是什么意思？你喜欢听故事，那么请允许我讲一个发生在我身上的故事。
故事发生在我7岁那年。因为是假日，我的口袋被几位朋友塞满了铜币。我赶忙向一家儿童玩具店跑去。在去商店的路上，我看到一个小男孩手中拿着一只哨子。他吹出的哨音委婉动听，我情不自禁地着迷了。于是，我来到商店，掏出所有的钱买了一只哨子。然后，回到家后，我便吹着哨子四处游荡。我对自己的哨子爱不释手，而全家人却因为哨声痛苦不堪。我的哥哥、姐姐、堂兄、堂姐、表兄、表姐得知了我买哨子的价钱后，告诉我，我买这只哨子多花了三倍的价钱，还告诉我用那些剩下的钱可以买到哪些好东西，并肆意地嘲笑我的愚蠢。我懊恼地哭了起来。这件事带给我的苦恼远多于哨子带给我的快乐。
不过，这件事一直留在我的记忆中，给我日后的人生带来了很多益处。从那以后，每当我想去买一些不必要的东西时，就对自己说，不要为哨子支付太多金钱，于是我便能省下钱来。
长大后，步入社会，我遇到了很多人，观察了人们的行为，最后我发现，他们都为自己的哨子付出了过高的代价。
当我看见一个过分热衷于趋炎附势，为寻求会见而不惜牺牲自己的睡眠、自由、德行甚至朋友的人时，我便对自己说，这个人为了他的哨子付出了昂贵的代价。
当我看见另一个人醉心于名望，一次又一次投身于政界的纷扰之中，忽视了自己的份内之事，最后因这种忽视而毁了自己的人生时，我说，他确实为哨子付出了昂贵的代价。
当我得知一个守财奴，为了积累财富，宁愿放弃舒适的生活、行善的乐趣、同胞的尊重和友爱带来的欢愉时，我会说，可怜的人啊，为了哨子你付出了昂贵的代价。
当我遇到一个沉湎于享乐，为了追求肉体上的享受，牺牲一切精神或物质上值得称道的改进，甚至不惜毁掉自己的健康的人时，我说，误入歧途的人啊，你是有福不享，自讨苦吃，为了哨子，你付出了昂贵的代价。
当我看到一个人追求外表的东西，或沉迷于精致的服装、豪华的住宅、富丽的家具、漂亮的马车，入不敷出、债台高筑，最后被投进监狱时，我说，天啊！为了哨子，他付出了如此昂贵的代价。
当我看到一个美丽动人、性情温顺的女孩，嫁给一个粗野、残忍的丈夫时，我说，真是可惜，为了哨子，她付出了昂贵的代价。
总之，我认为，人类所遭受的大部分的不幸，都是因为他们对事物的价值作出了错误的评估，是因为他们为哨子付出了过高的代价。
再见，我亲爱的朋友。请相信，我永远是你真诚的朋友，对你的情感持久不变。
■
我们中有太多人为了那只“哨子”，付出了过高的代价，遭受了不幸。看过这篇文章，相信你和我一样，下次在作决定之前，先要想想这件事值不值得我们付出时间、精力和金钱。
年轻人（1）
[古希腊]亚里士多德
■
亚里士多德（前384—前322）出生于希腊北部的斯塔吉拉，他的父亲是马其顿国王的御医。公元前367年，17岁的亚里士多德到当时希腊的文化中心雅典，进入柏拉图的阿卡德米学院学习。由于他聪敏过人，深受柏拉图的喜爱，成为柏拉图的得意门生。他在学院一共学习了20年，直到柏拉图去世。
我们首先来讨论一下年轻人的性格特征。年轻人有炽热的激情，而且想不管不顾地逐个满足。他们的愿望举棋不定，有的时候很猛烈，但转瞬即逝。他们极易冲动，但根基不深，如同病人遭到饥渴的侵袭一样。他们热情奔放，又性如烈火，很容易发怒，常常管不住自己的脾气。由于珍惜荣誉，他们不想让人轻视，所以如果受到别人不公平地对待，他们就会怒发冲冠。诚然，他们爱惜荣誉，却更钟情于胜利，青年人热衷于胜人一筹，而胜利就是其中的一种表现形式。他们对荣誉和胜利的爱远远胜过了金钱。他们不太在意钱，因为还没真正明白没钱会怎么样——庇塔喀斯谈论安菲阿劳斯时就是这么说的。他们倾向于看到事物向好的发展方向，而非坏的趋势，那是由于他们还没有目睹过多少不道德的事。他们很乐意相信别人，那是由于他们很少上当受骗。
他们面色红润，大自然仿佛用了过度的葡萄酒来温暖他们的血液。除了这些，他们也没有经历过什么沮丧的事。他们不是生活在对往昔的回忆中，而是生活在对未来的盼望中：因为盼望意味着未来，回忆意味着过去，年轻人未来的日子还很长远，过去的时光只有短暂的一小部分。当人第—天来到这个世界的时候，他根本没有什么可以回忆的事情，唯一能做的就是寄希望于未来。
他们会轻而易举地让人欺骗，那都归结于我们刚刚所说的精力旺盛的脾性。因为拥有情绪高涨、满怀希望的气质，他们会比老年人更勇敢，更有胆量。情绪高涨的内心让他们远离恐惧，满怀希望的气质让他们信心百倍；我们感到愤怒的时候，就不会害怕，而对任何美好事物的向往又让我们充满自信。
他们是害羞的，顺其自然地遵守社会的惯例，但还没有承认其他形式的荣誉标准。他们有崇高的理想，因为他们还没有体会生活的艰辛而变得谦虚起来，也没有理解生活中各种必要的束缚。更为严重的是，他们满怀希望，居然以为自己可以与日月相比——这就是心高气傲，目空一切。他们一直从事高尚的行为，而不在乎其实效；他们的生活多是遵循道德感，而非理智；尽管理智教导我们做有用的事，道德品质却指引我们做高尚的事。
与老年人相比，年轻人更喜爱自己的朋友、挚交和伙伴，因为整天呼朋唤友的生活才是他们钟爱的，而且无论是朋友还是其他东西，他们都不会用对自己的实用性来断定其价值。至于他们所犯的错误，是因为他们做事不是过头就是过猛。他们不遵守齐隆法则，做什么事都过分强调，要么爱得过多，要么恨得太狠，做其他事情也是一样。他们认为自己无所不知，而且说起来也信心十足，实际上，这就是他们行事过头的症结所在。他们时刻准备去同情别人，因为他们认为所有人都是诚实的，或者比他真实的为人要好：他们用自己善良的本质来判断左邻右舍，不能忍受自己会亏待邻居们。他们喜欢玩闹，因此非常诙谐机智，而机智是一种文雅的傲慢。
■
伟大的哲学家亚里士多德对事物的洞察力和对问题的分析深刻程度，非同一般。任何人都经历过青春期，青春期的少年都是心浮气躁的，生活里满是叛逆和没来由的烦恼。亚里士多德从哲学的角度，清晰透彻地分析了年轻人的个性特点。生动具体地描述了年轻人踌躇满志、血气方刚的原由和利弊。文章通俗易懂，简单明了，寓意深刻。刻画出年轻人的可爱可亲可惜可怜之处。本文是年轻人经历青春期的佳作典范。
*与丑腿（3）
An old philosophical friend of mine was grown, form experience, very cautious in this particular, and carefully avoided any intimacy with such people. He had, like other philosophers, a thermometer to show him the heat of the weather, and a barometer to mark when it was likely to prove good or bad; but, there being no instrument invented to discover, at first sight, this unpleasing disposition in a person, he for that purpose made use of his legs; one of which was remarkably handsome, the other, by some accident, crooked and deformed. If a Stranger, at the first interview, regarded his ugly Leg more than his handsome one, he doubted him. If he spoke of it, ＆ took no notice of the handsome Leg, that was sufficient to determine my Philosopher to have no further Acquaintance with him. Every body has not this two-legged Instrument, but every one with a little Attention, may observe Signs of that carping, fault-finding Disposition, ＆ take the same Resolution of avoiding the Acquaintance of those infected with it. I therefore advise those critical, querulous, discontented, unhappy People, that if they wish to be respected and beloved by others, ＆ happy in themselves they should leave off looking at the ugly Leg.
哨子（2）
The Whistle
Benjamin Franklin
I received my dear friend’s two letters, one for Wednesday and one for Saturday. This is again Wednesday. I do not deserve one for today, because I have not answered the former. But, indolent as I am, and averse to writing, the fear of having no more of your pleasing epistles, if I do not contribute to the correspondence, obliges me to take up my pen; and as Mr. B. has kindly sent me word that he sets out tomorrow to see you, instead of spending this Wednesday evening, as I have done its namesakes, in your delightful company, I sit down to spend it in thinking of you, in writing to you, and in reading over and over again your letters.
I am charmed with your description of Paradise, and with your plan of living there; and I approve much of your conclusion, that, in the mean time, we should draw all the good we can from this world. In my opinion, we might all draw more good from it than we do, and suffer less evil, if we would take care not to give too much for whistles. For to me it seems that most of the unhappy people we meet with are become so by neglect of that caution.
You ask what I mean? You love stories, and will excuse my telling one of myself.
When I was a child of seven years old, my friends, on a holiday, filled my pocket with coppers. I went directly to a shop where they sold toys for children, and being charmed with the sound of a whistle, that I met by the way in the hands of another boy, I voluntarily offered and gave all my money for one. I then came home, and went whistling all over the house, much pleased with my whistle, but disturbing all the family. My brothers, and sisters, and cousins, understanding the bargain I had made, told me I had given four times as much for it as it was worth; put me in mind what good things I might have bought with the rest of the money; and laughed at me so much for my folly, that I cried with vexation; and the reflections gave me more chagrin than the whistle gave me pleasure.
This, however, was afterward of use to me, the impression continuing on my mind; so that often, when I was tempted to buy some unnecessary thing, I said to myself, Don’t give too much for the whistle; and I saved my money.
As I grew up, came into the world, and observed the actions of men, I thought I met with many, very many, who gave too much for the whistle.
When I saw one too ambitious of court favor, sacrificing his time in attendance on levees, his repose, his liberty, his virtue, and perhaps his friends, to attain it, I have said to myself, This man gives too much for his whistle.
When I saw another fond of popularity, constantly employing himself in political bustles, neglecting his own affairs, and ruining them by that neglect, He pays, indeed, said I, too much for his whistle.
年轻人（2）
Youth
Aristotle
To begin with the Youthful type of character. Young men have strong passions, and tend to gratify1 them indiscriminately. They are changeable and fickle2 in their desires, which are violent while they last, but quickly over: their impulses are keen but not deep-rooted, and are like sick people’s attacks of hunger and thirst. They are hot-tempered, and quick-tempered, and apt to give way to their anger; bad temper often gets the better of them, for owing to their love of honour they cannot bear being slighted, and are indignant if they imagine themselves unfairly treated. While they love honour, they love victory still more; for youth is eager for superiority over others, and victory is one form of this. They love both more than they love money, which indeed they love very little, not having yet learnt what it means to be without it—this is the point of Pittancus, remark about Amphiaraus. They look at the good side rather than the bad, not having yet witnessed many instances of wickedness. They trust others readily, because they have not yet often been cheated3.
They are sanguine4; nature warms their blood as though with excess of wine; and besides that, they have as yet met with few disappointments. Their lives are mainly spent not in memory but in expectation; for expectation refers to the future, memory to the past, and youth has a long future before it and a short past behind it: on the first day of one’s life one has nothing at all to remember, and can only look forward.
They are easily cheated, owing to the sanguine disposition just mentioned. Their hot tempers and hopeful dispositions make them more courageous than older men are; the hot temper prevents fear, and the hopeful disposition creates confidence; we cannot feel tear so long as we are feeling angry, and any expectation of good makes us confident.
They are shy, accepting the rules of society in which they have been trained, and not yet believing in any other standard of honour. They have exalted5 notions, because they have not yet been humbled by life or learnt its necessary limitations; moreover, their hopeful disposition makes them think themselves equal to great things and that means having exalted notions. They would always rather do noble deeds than useful ones: their lives are regulated more by moral feeling than by reasoning; and whereas reasoning leads us to choose what is useful, moral goodness leads us to choose what is noble.
They are fonder of their friends, intimates, and companions than older men are, because they like spending their days in the company of others, and have not yet come to value either their friends or anything else by their usefulness to themselves. All their mistakes are in the direction of doing things excessively and vehemently. They disobey Chilon’s precept by overdoing everything, they love too much and hate too much, and the same thing with everything else. They think they know everything, and are always quite sure about it; this, in fact, is why they overdo everything... They are ready to pity others, because they think everyone an honest man, or anyhow better than he is: they judge their neighbor by their own harmless natures, and so cannot think he deserves to be treated in that way. They are fond of fun and therefore witty, wit being well-bred insolence.
幸福之路（1）
佚名
道德家们常说，靠追求你是无法得到幸福的。如果你不能明智地追求幸福，那么这句话就是真理。蒙特卡洛的赌徒们想要追求金钱，可是却闹得血本无归。其实还有很多追求金钱的方式，这些方法通常都能成功。追求幸福也同样如此。如果你靠喝酒来追求幸福，你就会忘记烦心事。伊壁鸠鲁追求幸福，是通过与志趣相投之人结交，只吃不涂黄油的面包，用一点儿奶酪庆贺节日。对他而言，这种追求幸福的方式被证明是成功的，但是他很虚弱，而大多数人需要一些能使精力更充沛的东西。对于很多人而言，除非有多种方式可供选择，否则对幸福的追求太过抽象和不切实际，很难成为个人的人生准则。但是，我认为，不管你选择怎样的人生角色，都不应该与幸福相矛盾，除了极其罕见和英雄式的情况。
有很多人，他们拥有获得幸福的各种物质条件，即健康的体魄和丰厚的收入。然而，他们的生活却很不幸福。在这样的事例中，问题似乎存在于关于如何生活的错误理论之中。从某种意义上讲，或许我们可以说，关于如何生活的所有理论都是错误的。我们想象的与动物的区别，比真实的差别更大。动物靠冲动生活，只要外部的条件令人喜欢，它们就会觉得幸福。如果你养了一只猫，只要吃得饱，住得暖，晚上偶尔有机会戏耍一番，它就觉得是在享受生活了。尽管你的需求比你的猫的需要复杂得多，但是它们的需求仍是以本能为基础的。在文明社会，尤其是在说英语的社会里，这一点太容易被人遗忘了。人们为自己制定下一个极其重要的目标，并抑制所有无益于目标的冲动。也许商人是如此渴望变得富有，以至最后牺牲了健康和感情。当他最终变得富有时，除了用训导词作为他人学习的伟大榜样之外，他一无所有。尽管在文学或艺术上，上帝并没有赐予她们天生的快乐，但是很多贵妇人仍被认为是有教养的。她们用无聊的时光学习有用的东西、谈论时尚的新书，这些书都是为了给人带来快乐而写的，并不是为那些势利之人提供附庸风雅的机会。
如果观察一下你身边的所谓的幸福男女，你就会发现他们有一些共同之处。其中最重要的一点就是投身于一项活动，而这项活动最终逐渐形成某种你喜闻乐见的事物。喜爱孩子是女人的天性，她们能够从对子女的抚养中获得这种满足感。如果艺术家、文学家和科学家满意于自己的工作，他们就能在工作中找到快乐。但是，人世间更多的还是普通人的欢乐。有很多在城市工作的人，周末会在自家的小院里，自愿而不计报酬地从事体力劳动，当春天到来的时候，他们就能享受到美丽花朵带来的所有快乐。
依我看来，幸福的全部主题都被人们看得太严肃。人们认为，没有生活理论或宗教信仰的人是不会幸福的。或许那些因为糟糕的生活理论而生活得不幸福的人，需要一个更好的理论来使他们恢复快乐，就像在你生病的时候需要营养品滋补一样。但是，在正常情况下，人不需要滋补品就很健康，不需要生活理论就能生活得很幸福。事实就是这样简单。一个男人，如果他家庭生活和睦、事业有成，昼夜交替和四季轮回都能带给他快乐，那么，不管他有怎样的人生哲学，他都觉得是幸福的。反之，如果他讨厌妻子，厌烦孩子，惧怕工作，白天盼望夜晚，黑夜期盼黎明，那么，他需要的不是新的人生哲学，而是新的养生之道——一种全新的饮食习惯、多锻炼身体等等。
人是一种动物，他的幸福更取决于他的生理状况，而不是幻想。这是一个浅薄的结论，但是我无法让自己对它有丝毫怀疑。我深信，那不幸的商人每天走上六英里会获得更多的欢乐，而不是通过改变其人生哲学。
如果我休息，我就生锈
[美国]奥里森·马登
■
奥里森·马登（1848—1924），美国著名的成功学家,其创办的《成功》杂志在美国无人不晓，这一杂志通过创造性地传播成功学改变了无数美国人的命运。他被公认为美国成功学的奠基人和最伟大的成功励志导师。
在一把旧锁上发现了一则重要的铭文——如果我休息，我就生锈。对于那些为懒散而苦恼的人来说，这将是至理名言。甚至勤奋工作的人也可以此为警示，如果一个人有才而不用，就像废弃钥匙上的铁，很快就会生锈，最终不能适应工作。
那些想取得像伟人那样的成就，并成为伟人的人，必须不断地使用自身才能得以提升自身，以便使知识的大门、人类为之奋斗的每个领域——专业、科学、艺术、文学、农业的大门——不会被锁上。
勤奋是开启成功宝库的钥匙。如果休·米勒白天在伐木场劳作后，晚上停下来休息消遣的话，就不会成为名垂青史的地理学家。著名的数学家爱德蒙·斯通，如果闲暇时无所事事，就不会出版数学词典，也不会发现开启数学大门的钥匙。如果苏格兰青年霍格森，在山坡上放羊时让他那繁忙的大脑处于休眠状态，而不是花费心思计算星星的位置，他将不会成为著名的天文学家。
劳动改变一切——不是断断续续、变化无常的或者方向偏差的劳动，而是忠诚的、不懈的、方向正确的日夜劳动。正如，要想获得自由，必须时刻警惕；而要想获得永久的成功，则必须坚持不懈地工作。
If I Rest, I Rust
Orison Marden
The significant inscription found on an old key—“If I rest, I rust”—would be an excellent motto for those who are afflicted with the slightest taint of idleness. Even the industrious might adopt it with advantage to serve as a reminder that, if one allows his faculties to rest, like the iron in the unused key, they will soon show signs of rust, and, ultimately, cannot do the work required of them.
Those who would attain the heights reached and kept by great men must keep their faculties polished by constant use, so that they may unlock the doors of knowledge, the gates that guard the entrances to the professions, to science, art, literature, agriculture—every department of human endeavor.
Industry keeps bright the key that opens the treasury of achievement. If Hugh Miller, after toiling all day in a quarry, had devoted his evenings to rest and recreation he would never have become a famous geologist. The celebrated mathematician, Edmund Stone, would never have published a mathematical dictionary, never have found the key to science of mathematics, if he had given his spare moments to idleness. Had the little Scotch lad, Ferguson, allowed the busy brain to go to sleep while he tended sheep on the hillside, instead of calculating the position of the stars by a string of beads, he would never have become a famous astronomer.
Labor vanquished all—not inconstant, spasmodic, or ill-directed labor; but faithful, unremitting, daily effort toward a well-directed purpose. Just as truly as eternal vigilance is the price of liberty, so is eternal industry the price of noble and enduring success.
哨子（3）
If I knew a miser, who gave up every kind of comfortable living, all the pleasure of doing good to others, all the esteem of his fellow-citizens, and the joys of benevolent friendship, for the sake of accumulating wealth, Poor man, said I, you pay too much for your whistle.
When I met with a man of pleasure, sacrificing every laudable improvement of the mind, or of his fortune, to mere corporeal sensations, and ruining his health in their pursuit, Mistaken man, said I, you are providing pain for yourself, instead of pleasure; you give too much for your whistle.
If I see one fond of appearance, or fine clothes, fine houses, fine furniture, fine equipages, all above his fortune, for which he contracts debts, and ends his career in a prison, Alas! say I, he has paid dear, very dear, for his whistle.
When I see a beautiful sweet-tempered girl married to an ill-natured brute of a husband, What a pity, say I, that she should pay so much for a whistle!
In short, I conceive that great part of the miseries of mankind are brought upon them by the false estimates they have made of the value of things, and by their giving too much for their whistles.
Yet I ought to have charity for these unhappy people, when I consider that, with all this wisdom of which I am boasting, there are certain things in the world so tempting, for example, the apples of King John, which happily are not to be bought; for if they were put to sale by auction, I might very easily be led to ruin myself in the purchase, and find that I had once more given too much for the whistle.
Adieu, my dear friend, and believe me ever yours very sincerely and with unalterable affection.
徒步旅行（1）
[英国]罗伯特·路易斯·史蒂文森
■
罗伯特·路易斯·斯蒂文生(1850—1894)，英国小说家，生于爱丁堡，毕业于爱丁堡大学法律系，但他最大的志向却是在文学方面。他的第一部散文著作《内陆航行》于1878年出版。他一生被肺病困扰，周游各地养病，期间发表大量短篇小说和游记。
我们一定不可以像有些人那样，认为徒步旅行来观赏乡村风景不过是一种不错或糟糕的方式。其实观赏山水风景的方法很多，而且都很不错，只是没有一种方法比得上坐火车观赏生动有趣。尽管一些假冒风雅之人并不赞同，但是徒步观光是一种十分可行的方法。一个真正有兄弟情怀的人乘船出行时，并不奢求沿途特殊的景观，而是怀着某种愉快之情——从早晨船只充满希望、精神抖擞地出航，到夜晚平安、充实地归航。他说不清是挎上背包时，还是卸下背包时更快乐。起程时的兴奋已将归行的喜悦降落在他身上。不管他做了什么，不仅仅是对其本身的奖赏，一定也会在未来得到更丰厚的赏赐。因此，快乐带来快乐，源源不断。关于这一点，只有少数人能够明白。大多数人不是长期待在一个地方不动，就是顷刻数里。他们不会将两者折中，而是终日劳碌奔忙。而且，最重要的是赶路之人不能领悟旅游的乐趣。这种人，自己对着酒罐痛饮时，见到别人用小杯子喝就会心生反感。他不会相信，啜酒才能品出酒的醇香；也不会相信拼命赶路只会让自己变得麻木、冷酷无情；晚上回到客栈感觉筋疲力尽、头脑昏沉，并不像悠闲的漫步者一样，夜晚对他来说并不温和迷人。睡帽与上床大睡是他唯一的要求；如果他是个吸烟的人，甚至连烟斗也会变得索然无味，没有了诱惑力。在追求快乐的过程中，这种人注定要事倍功半，并且最终与快乐无缘。总之，他如同谚语中所说的那种人——走得越远越糟糕。
那么，要好好地享受旅行，徒步旅行者需要力求独自前往。如果你让人陪伴或结伴而行，那就不再是徒步旅行，徒有其表罢了，更像是大自然中的一次野炊。徒步旅行应单独进行，因为自由是徒步出游的，因为你能随时停下或继续前进，随着自己的心情选择这条路或那条路；因为你必须有自己的步调，既不需要跟紧步履匆匆之人，也无须在女孩儿身上浪费时间。然后，你一定要抒发自己所有的情怀，让你的所见之物为思想添彩。你应该做一支任风吹走的笛子。哈兹里特曾说：“我不能体会行走与谈论同步的乐趣。当我身在乡村时，我向往简单纯粹的生活，就像村民们一样。”这正是独自旅行的内涵。在你的身边不该有嘈杂之声打破沉思的寂静清晨。一个没有停止思考的人，是不会全身心地陶醉在来自户外的美好景致之中的。陶醉起始于意乱眼迷，思维的停滞，最终进入一种超凡的平和境界。
任何形式的出游，第一天总会有些苦涩的瞬间。当旅行者对他的背包感觉更糟，想要把它抛到篱笆之外时，会像基督徒在类似情形下的做法一样，“跳三跳，继续歌唱”。但是，很快你就能获得出游的舒适心境。它会变得有吸引力，出游的精神也会被吸引在其中。于是，背包一背上肩，你残留的睡意就会顷刻全无，抖擞精神，大跨步地开始新的旅行。无疑，在所有的心绪中，选择道路时的那种心情是最好的。当然，如果他要继续考虑那些烦心事，如果他像阿布达的箱子一样敞开胸怀与女巫同行的话，那么无论他身在哪里，也无论他是疾走还是漫步，他都不会快乐。而且，这给自己的人生带来多少羞愧啊！如果现在有30个人同时出发的话，我敢跟你打赌，在这30个人中，你再不会找到一个脸色忧郁之人。这是一件很值得去做的事情。试想，一个夏日的清晨，这些旅行者带着夜色，一个接一个地上路了。他们当中有一个步调很快的人，他的目光中带着渴望，全神贯注于自己的思绪，原来他正在自出机杼，斟字酌句，将山水秀景再现于文字。有一个人，边走边凝视着草间；他在小河边停下，去看看那里飞舞的蜻蜓；他倾斜着身子依靠在茅屋门前，看不够那安然自得的母牛群。另外有一个人，他说着、笑着，对自己指手画脚地一路走来。随着他眼中闪现的怒火，或是额头上的阴云，他的脸色在不时地变化着。原来他正在路边构思文稿，表达演说，进行着最热烈的会谈。再过一会儿，他又极可能引吭高歌。对他而言，假如他在这方面不是很擅长，刚好又在拐角处碰上一个并不木讷的农民，我想不出还有什么比这样的情形更糟糕的事情，我实在不知道是这位民谣歌手更尴尬，还是那位农民更难受。久居于室内的人通常不习惯去那些陌生的地方，也不能理解这些游客的乐趣所在。我认识一个人，他曾被指控为疯汉，因为尽管他已是一个长着红胡子的成年人，但是走起路来却像孩子一样蹦蹦跳跳。如果我告诉你，很多学识渊博的学者都向我坦白，他们徒步出游的时候都会唱歌，而且唱得很难听，当他们遇到上面的情况——与一个不幸的农民相遇时，都会羞愧难当，你一定会很吃惊。
幸福之路（2）
■
人们一谈到与幸福相关的话题便显得过于保守。人的需要以及其他动物的需要都是建立在本能的基础之上的，但在现实社会中，人们往往忘却这一点。获得幸福的物质条件是拥有健康的身体和丰厚的收入，而人的幸福感与他是否拥有人生哲学没有关系。无论如何，人们选择的生活不能违背幸福的准则。
The Road to Happiness
Anonymous
It is a commonplace among moralists that you cannot get happiness by pursuing it. This is only true if you pursue it unwisely. Gamblers at Monte Carlo are pursuing money, and most of them lose it instead, but there are other ways of pursuing money, which often succeed. So it is with happiness, if you pursue it by means of drink, you are forgetting the hang-over. Epicures pursued it by living only in congenial society and eating only dry bread, supplemented by a little cheese on feast days. His method proved successful in his case, but he was a valetudinarian, and most people would need something more vigorous. For most people, the pursuit of happiness, unless supplemented in various ways, is too abstract and theoretical to be adequate as a personal rule of life. But I think that whatever personal role of life you may choose, it should not, except in rare and heroic cases, be incompatible with happiness.
There are a great many people who have all the material conditions of happiness, , and who, nevertheless, are profoundly unhappy. In such cases it would seem as if the fault must lie with a wrong theory as to how to live. In one sense, we may say that any theory as to how to live is wrong. We imagine ourselves more different from the animals than we are. Animals live on impulse, and are happy as long as external conditions are favorable. If you have a cat it will enjoy life if it has food and warmth and opportunities for an occasional night on the tiles. Your needs are more complex than those of your cat, but they still have their basis in instinct. In civilized societies, especially in English-speaking societies, this is too apt to be forgotten. People propose to themselves some one paramount objective, and restrain all impulses that do not minister to it. A businessman may be so anxious to grow rich that to this end he sacrifices health and private affections. When at last he has become rich, no pleasure remains to him except harrying other people by exhortations to imitate his noble example. Many rich ladies, although nature has not endowed them with any spontaneous pleasure in literature or art, decide to be thought cultured, and spend boring hours learning the right thing to say about fashionable new books that are written to give delight, not to afford opportunities for dusty snobbismn.
If you look around at the men and women whom you can call happy, you will see that they all have certain things in common. The most important of these things is an activity which at most gradually builds up something that you are glad to see coming into existence. Women who take an instinctive pleasure in their children can get this kind of satisfaction out of bringing up a family. Artists and authors and men of science get happiness in this way if their own work seems good to them. But there are many humbler forms of the same kind of pleasure. Many men who spend their working life in the city devote their weekends to voluntary and unremunerated toil in their gardens, and when the spring comes, they experience all the joys of having created beauty.
论自助（1）
[美国]拉尔夫·沃尔多·爱默生
■
拉尔夫·沃尔多·爱默生（1803—1882），美国思想家、诗人、散文家。生于波士顿的牧师家庭，毕业于波士顿拉丁学校和哈佛大学。21岁时成为神职人员，不久便对基督教产生怀疑，1832年辞职远游，遍访欧洲文化名人。曾经深入研究过荷马、柏拉图、但丁、蒙田和莎士比亚。代表作有《论自然》《美国学者》《神学院致辞》《散文选》《诗集》等。
人是自己的明星，灵魂可以塑造出一个诚实而完美的人。
他掌控所有光明、所有势力、所有命运。一切境遇都会来得恰如其时。
如果我们的行为是慈善的，就是我们的天使，
如果是邪恶的，就是从我们身旁静静走过的勾命阎罗。
——波蒙和弗莱契《老实人的命运·尾声》
前几天，我读了几首诗，诗的作者是一位杰出的画家。它们立意新奇，却不庸俗。字里行间总能听到一种告诫。先不说题材怎样，诗句慢慢灌输的情操，要比它包含的任何思想都有价值。相信你自己的观点，相信你内心深处的真理是适用于所有人的真理——这就是天赋。说出你藏匿在心里的想法，它能成为一种普遍的认识。因为最内在的东西适当地成为了最外在的东西。我们最初的思想会清晰地将最后的结果反馈给我们。就像每个人都对心灵的声音非常熟悉一样，我们认为摩西、柏拉图和弥尔顿最大的功绩就在于他们蔑视书本和传统，不发表别人的言论，只说出自己的思想。一个人不应关注诗人和圣人天空里的光彩，而应学会察觉并观察从心灵滑过的微弱光芒。然而，他没能注意自己的思想，因为那是他自己的东西。在天才的每一部作品中，我们都能发现被我们忽视了的思想，它们带着某种疏离的威严回到我们身边。伟大的艺术作品给我们的教益也就这些。它们教导我们：在对方高声宣扬自己的观点时，我们要坚定地坚持我们自己的思想。否则，明天一位陌生人高明地说的观点，将正好是我们一直所想、所感的东西，而且我们被迫从别人那里获得自己的观点，并感到羞辱。
在每个人的求知期间，总有一天他会坚信一点：忌妒就是无知；效仿等同于自杀；一个人必须要将自己的好与坏都视为自己的一部分；尽管广阔的世界充满了善行，但是如果不在自己的那块土地上辛勤耕种，营养丰富的谷物是不会自己送上门的。一个人身上所蕴藏的力量实际上是新奇的，除了自己谁也不知道他能做什么，而如果不去尝试，他自己也不知道。一张面孔，一个人物，一件事实，都会给他留下深刻的印象，却没有给他人留下。这些记忆从前是融洽的。将精力集中在光线应该投射的地方，那样才能发现这束光很特别。我们还不能充分地表达自己，还羞于提出我们的非凡观点。我们完全有理由相信，这些观点很正确，因此也一定会被如实地传达，但是上帝是不会让懦弱之人来彰显他的杰作的。当一个人尽心尽力地工作时，就能感到踏实和快乐；但是如果他言行不一，他将不得安宁。那是一种没有摆脱的解脱。他的天赋在尝试中就抛弃了他。没有灵感的保护，没有创造，也没有希望。
相信你自己，让每一颗心都随那条铁弦震动。接受上天的安排，接受你所存在的社会，接受事件的种种关联。伟大之人就是这样做的，并像孩子般向时代的天才吐露心声；将藏在心间的绝对可信的东西泄露给他们；将自己的命运交予他们掌控。现在，我们都是成人了，必须要接受最高精神里的同样的超凡命运。我们不是护助所里的老弱病残，也不是革命战前的逃兵，我们是领袖，是救世主，是恩人，我们跟随全能者尝试，朝着浑沌与黑暗挺进。
徒步旅行（2）
Walking Tours
Robert Louis Stevenson
It must not be imagined that a walking tour, as some would have us fancy1, is merely a better or worse way of seeing the country. There are many ways of seeing landscape quite as good; and none more vivid, in spite of canting dilettantes2, than from a railway train. But landscape on a walking tour is quite accessory. He who is indeed of the brotherhood does not voyage inquest of the picturesque, but of certain jolly humors of the hope and spirit with which the march begins at morning, and the peace and spiritual repletion of the evening’s rest. He cannot tell whether he puts his knapsack on, or takes it off, with more delight. The excitement of the departure3 puts him in key for that of the arrival. Whatever he does is not only a reward in itself, but will be further rewarded in the sequel; and so pleasure leads on to pleasure in an endless chain. It is this that so few can understand; they will either be always lounging or always at five miles an hour; they do not play off the one against the other, prepare allay for the evening, and all evening for the next day. And, above all, it is here that your overwalker fails of comprehension. His heart rises against those who drink their curacaos in liqueur glasses, when he himself can swill it in a brown John. He will not believe that the flavour is more delicate in the smaller dose. He will not believe that to walk this unconscionable distance is merely to stupefy and brutalize himself, and come to his inn, at night, with a sort of frost on his five wits4, and a starless night of darkness in his spirit. Not for him the mild luminous evening of the temperate walker! He has nothing left of man but a physical need for bed-time and a double nightcap; and even his pipe, if he be a smoker, will be savorless and disenchanted. It is the fate of such an one to take twice as much trouble as is needed to obtain happiness, and miss the happiness in the end; he is the man of the proverb, in short, who goes farther and fares worse.
Now, to be properly enjoyed, a walking tour should beg one upon alone. If you go in a company, or even in pairs, it is no longer a walking tour in anything but name; it is something else and more in the nature of a picnic. A walking tour should be gone upon alone, because freedom is of the essence; because you should be able to stop and go on, and follow this way or that, as the freak takes you; and because you must have your own pace, and neither trot alongside a champion walker, nor mince in time with a girl. And then you must be open to all impressions and let your thoughts take colour from what you see. You should be as a pipe for any wind to play upon. “I cannot see the wit,” says Hazlitt, “of walking and talking at the same time. When I am in the country I wish to vegetate like the country,” which is the gist of all that can be said upon the matter. There should be no cackle of voices at your elbow, to jar on the meditative silence of the morning. And so long as a man is reasoning he cannot surrender himself to that fine intoxication5 that comes of much motion in the open air, that begins in a sort of dazzle and sluggishness of the brain, and ends in a peace that passes comprehension.
幸福之路（3）
The whole subject of happiness has, in my opinion, been treated too solemnly. It had been thought that man cannot be happy without a theory of life or a religion. Perhaps those who have been rendered unhappy by a bad theory may need a better theory to help them to recovery, just as you may need a tonic when you have been ill. But when things are normal a man should be healthy without a tonic and happy without a theory. It is the simple things that really matter. If a man delights in his wife and children, has success in work, and finds pleasure in the alternation of day and night, spring and autumn, he will be happy whatever his philosophy may be. If, on the other hand, he finds his wife fateful, his children’s noise unendurable, and the office a nightmare; if in the daytime he longs for night, and at night sighs for the light of day, then what he needs is not a new philosophy but a new regimen—a different diet, or more exercise, or what not.
Man is an animal, and his happiness depends on his physiology more than he likes to think. This is a humble conclusion, but I cannot make myself disbelieve it. Unhappy businessmen, I am convinced, would increase their happiness more by walking six miles every day than by any conceivable change of philosophy.
初雪（1）
[英国]约翰·波顿·普里斯特利
■
约翰·波顿·普里斯特利（1894—1984），英国小说家、剧作家、评论家。曾就读于剑桥大学，1922年到伦敦，从事文学创作。他的作品被人们广为传阅的有小说《好伙伴》《天使人行道》，剧本《危险的角落》《我曾经到过那里》等。
罗伯特·林德曾这样评论简·奥斯汀笔下的人物：“他们是这样的人，在他们的生活中，能遇上一场小雪就算是一件大事。”尽管可能被这位诙谐而温和的评论家看成是伍德豪斯式的人物，我仍然坚持认为，昨晚这里下了一场雪的确是一件大事。清晨，看到这皑皑白雪，我和孩子们不禁兴奋起来，我看到他们在幼儿室的窗户前凝望着外面奇妙的世界，七嘴八舌说个没完，仿佛又要过圣诞节了。事实上，这场雪对我和孩子们来说都是惊奇、迷人的。这是今年冬天这里的第一场雪，由于去年此时我身在国外，在落雪时节正经历着热带的高温，所以再次看到铺设着这洁白地毯的大地时,有种久违了的感觉。去年在国外时，我遇上英属圭亚那三个年轻的女孩子，她们刚结束对英国的初访。在她们的印象之中，最深的两件事是：伦敦街头熙熙攘攘的人群，全都是陌生的面孔(她们强调这一点，是因为她们一直生活在小镇，人们彼此都很熟悉)；另外一件事是在索默塞特某地，一天清晨醒来忽然见到了白雪皑皑的景象。她们欣喜若狂，一扫淑女的矜持，冲出屋子，来回奔跑在那片晶莹洁白的雪地上，在无人踩过的雪毯上，留下了横七竖八快乐的脚印，正像孩子们今天早晨在花园里做的那样。
这场初雪不仅是件大事，而且还是件富有魔法的大事。你睡觉时处在一个世界里，而醒来时，却发现你在一个截然不同的天地里。如果这都不让人沉醉，到哪里去找更醉人的东西呢?一切都悄然地在一种神秘的沉静中完成，因而更给这场初雪增添了玄妙的色彩。若所有的雪铺天盖地倾泻下来，把我们从午夜的沉睡中惊醒，那么，这就没什么值得欢呼雀跃的了。但它却是趁我们熟睡时，分秒必争，悄无声息地飘落下来。卧室里窗帘拉拢了，外面却发生着翻天覆地的变化，犹如无数的精灵仙童在悄悄地施展魔法，而我们只是翻个身，打个哈欠，伸一下懒腰，对此毫无知觉。然而，这变化是多么巨大呀！我们住的房子仿佛掉进了另一片天地。即使在白雪鞭长莫及的室内，也好像不一样了，每个房间都显得小巧而温暖，好像有某种力量的驱使让它成为一个伐木工的棚屋，或一所温暖舒适的圆木房。外面，昨天的花园，现在却是晶莹皎洁的一片，远处的村落犹如古老德国神话中的一个仙境，不再是你所熟识的一排排房屋了。所有住在那里的人们：戴眼镜的邮政局女局长、鞋匠、退休的小学校长，以及其他人，如果你听说他们都改头换面，成了古怪精灵般的人物，能为你提供隐身帽和魔术鞋，你也不会感到不可思议。你也会觉得自己和昨天不太一样。一切都在变化，你又怎会一成不变？屋子萦绕着一种莫名其妙的激动，一种由兴奋而产生的微弱的颤动，让人心神不宁，这和人们将要作一次旅行时所常有的那种感觉没什么两样。孩子们当然无比兴奋，就连大人们在准备开始一天的工作之前，在一起聊天的时间也比以往要长一些。任何人都会不由自主地到窗户前去瞧瞧——这种情形就和人们在一艘远行的游轮上一样。
今天早晨起床时，整个世界变成了淡蓝洁白交相呼应的冰封天地。光线从窗户射进来，迷迷离离，竟然使得洗脸、刷牙、刮胡子、穿衣服这些日常小事也显得很离奇古怪。接着太阳出来了，到我坐下来吃早餐时，太阳的光彩已经是绚丽夺目，给雪地添上一抹柔和的淡粉色。餐室的窗户成为一幅可爱的日本版画。屋外的小梅树愉快地沐浴着日光，树杈上镶嵌着淡粉色的雪花巧妙地装点着树干。过了一两个小时，万物都成了寒气四溢、白蓝交辉的发光体。世界再次焕然一新。那精巧的日本版画已然消失。我从书房的窗户望去，穿过花园，越过草地，看到那远处的小土丘，大地晶莹皎洁，天空一片铅灰，所有的树木呈阴森恐怖状——确实有种非同寻常的危险蕴藏在这景象之中。它好像把我们这个与英国中心毗邻地区里的宜人乡村变成了一个残忍冷酷的荒原。在那幽暗的矮树林中，似乎有一队骑兵随时都会从里面冲杀出来，随时都会听到刀剑无情的砍杀声，也可能会看到远处某一处雪地被鲜血染红。——这就是我看到的情景。
赫拉克勒斯的选择（1）
佚名
在赫拉克勒斯的著名选择——选择劳作，不贪图享乐中，他明白了大多数人都不能发现的一种观点。他明白，选择劳作就是选择了美德，也因此选择了幸福。然而，值得注意的是，幸福并不是他的目标，而更是对他辛勤劳作的一种回报。这一点是至关重要的。许多人视追求快乐为终极目标，是因为他们相信，正如这个故事中快乐的化身所说的那样，安逸是一种“为享受生活无所求”的状态。但是，即使你得到了这样的快乐，你也失去了一些基本的东西——只有通过人类的拼搏争取才能获得的精神满足感。我们知道，当赫拉克勒斯走上美德和劳作的道路时，真正的幸福就会来到他身边。
当赫拉克勒斯还是个英俊的小伙子时，他就要自己面对生活了。一天早晨，他出门为继父办事，但是，越走他心里的酸楚就越多。他埋怨起来，因为那些并不比他好的人都安逸而快乐地生活着，而他一无所有，只能天天辛劳而痛苦地生活。
想着这些，他来到了一个交叉路口。他停了下来，不确定应该选择哪条路。
他右面的那条路，崎岖陡峭，沿途也没有漂亮的景色，但他看到这条路直接通向了远方的绿色山脉。
他左面的道路，宽阔平坦，道路两旁绿树成荫，有无数鸟儿在那里歌唱。这条道路在绿色的草地上蜿蜒，草地上开满了无数的花朵，但是这条通向绿色山脉的路远远看不到尽头。
就在他犹豫地站在那里时，他看到每条路上都有一个漂亮的女人向他走来。有鲜花的那条路上的女人最先来到他面前。赫拉克勒斯发现，她就像夏日的天气一样明亮绚丽。
她面颊绯红，眼睛灼灼有光，言辞热情且具有说服力。“哦，高贵的年轻人，”她说，“跟我走吧，别再弯腰劳作，别在小道上跋涉了。我会带你走上一条快乐的道路。那里没有风暴袭扰，没有烦恼扰心。在永恒的音乐与欢笑的陪伴下，你将快乐地生活。要享受生活的快乐，你什么也不缺少——飘香的美酒、柔软的睡椅、华美的衣服或美丽少女爱慕的目光。跟我来吧，生活会像快乐的白日梦一般美好。”
就在这时，另一位美丽的女人也走近他的身旁。她告诉这位少年说：“除了你通过自己的努力应该获得的东西以外，我不能对你承诺什么。我要带你走的路崎岖而又陡峭，需要翻越很多座山，穿过很多峡谷和沼泽。有时，你从小山顶上看到的景色是雄伟而又壮观的。不过，峡谷的谷底幽暗漆黑，从深谷里往上爬更是艰辛。然而，这条路通向无上声名的绿色山峰，在那里，你能看到地平线上更遥远的地方。不经过艰辛的劳作，是不可能看到这些景物的。事实上，若非艰辛的劳作换取的成果，是毫无价值的。如果你想得到鲜花和果实，你必须栽种它们、培育它们；如果你想得到同伴的关爱，你必须关爱他们，为他们受苦；如果你想得到上天的宠爱，你必须让自己有资格享受这种宠爱；如果你想得到不朽的名望，你就不要忽略通往名望的艰难之路。”
尽管这个女人同另一位女人一样美丽，但赫拉克勒斯看到她的面庞纯真而文雅，就像五月里温暖清晨的天空。
“该如何称呼你呢?”他问。
“有些人叫我劳作，”她回答，“还有另一些人叫我美德。”
然后，年轻人又转向第一个女人。“那么，你又叫什么名字?”他问道。
“有些人叫我快乐，”她带着迷人的微笑说，“但我愿意被人称做愉快和幸福。”
赫拉克勒斯说：“美德，我选择你做我的向导！付出劳作和诚实的努力的道路，才是我要走的路。我的内心不再怀有苦楚与不满。”
他把手放到美德的手中，和她一起走上了难以行走的道路，那条路将直通向遥远而又模糊的地平线上的美丽山峰。
论自助（2）
■
在爱默生看来，人的精神法则就是相信自己的心灵，“除了人自己心灵的完善外，没有什么神圣之物。”所以在人和人的友谊中，“我们必须是我们自己的，然后才能成为别人的。”有人评价爱默生有着“哲学家的深邃、宗教家的虔敬、演说家的激情以及诗人的睿智和美”。在人们逐渐忘却心灵、抛却自然的今天，希望我们每个人都能够从爱默生的文字和思想中找到一丝平静。
Self-Reliance
Ralph Waldo Emerson
Man is his own star, and the soul that can
Render an honest and a perfect man,
Command all light, all influence, all fate,
Nothing to him falls early or too late.
Our acts our angels are, or good or ill,
Our fatal shadows that walk by us still.
—Epilogue to Beaumont and Fletcher’s Honest Man’s Fortune.
I read the other day some verses written by an eminent painter which were original and not conventional. The soul always hears an admonition in such lines, let the subject be what it may. The sentiment they instill is of more value than any thought they may contain. To believe your own thought, to believe that what is true for you in your private heart is true for all men—that is genius. Speak your latent conviction, and it shall be the universal sense; for the inmost in due time becomes the outmost, and our first thought is rendered back to us by the trumpets of the Last Judgment. Familiar as the voice of the mind is to each, the highest merit we ascribe to Moses, Plato, and Milton is that they set at naught books and traditions and spoke not what men, but what they thought. A man should learn to detect and watch that gleam of light which flashes across his mind from within more than the luster of the firmament of bards and sages. Yet he dismisses without notice his thought, because it is his. In every work of genius we recognize our rejected thoughts; they come back to us with a certain alienated majesty. Great works of art have no more affecting lesson for us than this. They teach us to abide by our spontaneous impression with good-humored inflexibility then most when the whole cry of voices is on the other side. Else, tomorrow a stranger will say with masterly good sense precisely what we have thought and felt all the time, and we shall be forced to take with shame our own opinion from another.
There is a time in every man’s education when he arrives at the conviction that envy is ignorance; that imitation is suicide; that he must take himself for better, for worse, as his portion; that, though the wide universe is full of good, no kernel of nourishing corn can come to him but through his toil bestowed on that plot of ground which is given to him to till. The power which resides in him is new in nature, and none but he knows what that is which he can do, nor does he know until he has tried. Not for nothing one face, one character, one fact makes much impression on him, and another none. This sculpture in the memory is not without preestablished harmony. The eye was placed where one ray should fall that it might testify of that particular ray. We but half express ourselves, and are ashamed of that divine idea which each of us represents. It may be safely trusted as proportionate and of good issues, so it be faithfully imparted, but God will not have his work made manifest by cowards. A man is relieved and gay when he has put his heart into his work and done his best; but what he has said or done otherwise shall give him no peace. It is a deliverance which does not deliver. In the attempt his genius deserts him; no muse befriends; no invention, no hope.
Trust thyself; every heart vibrates to that iron string. Accept the place the divine providence has found for you, the society of your contemporaries, the connection of events. Great men have always done so, and confided themselves childlike to the genius of their age, betraying their perception that the absolutely trustworthy was seated at their heart, working through their hands, predominating in all their being. And we are now men and must accept in the highest mind the same transcendent destiny; and not minors and invalids in a protected corner, not cowards fleeing before a revolution, but guides, redeemers, and benefactors, obeying the Almighty effort, and advancing on Chaos and the Dark.
徒步旅行（3）
During the first day or so of any tour there are moments of bitterness, when the traveler feels more than coldly towards his knapsack, when he is half in a mind to throw it bodily over the hedge and, like Christian on a similar occasion, “give three leaps and go on singing”. And yet it soon acquires a property of easiness. It becomes magnetic; the spirit of the journey enters into it. And no sooner have you passed the straps over your shoulder than the lees of sleep are cleared from you, you pull yourself together with a shake, and fall at once into your stride. And surely, of all possible moods, this, in which a man takes the road, is the best. Of course, if he will keep thinking of his anxieties, if he will open the merchant Abudah’s chest and walk arm-in-arm with the hag—why, wherever he is, and whether he walks fast or slow, the chances are that he will not be happy. And so much the more shame to himself! There are perhaps thirty men setting forth at that same hour, and I would lay a large wager there is not another dull face among the thirty. It would be a fine thing to follow, in a coat of darkness, one after another of these wayfarers, some summer morning, for the first few miles upon the road. This one, who walks fast, with a keen look in his eyes, is all concentrated in his own mind; he is up at his loom, weaving and weaving, to set the landscape to words. This one peers about, as he goes, among the grasses; he waits by the canal to watch the dragonflies; he leans on the gate of the pasture, and cannot look enough upon the complacent kine. And here comes another, talking, laughing, and gesticulating to himself. His face changes from time to time, as indignation flashes from his eyes or anger clouds his forehead. He is composing articles, delivering orations, and conducting the most impassioned interviews, by the way. A little farther on, and it is as like as not he will begin to sing. And well for him, supposing him to be no great master in that art, if he stumbles across no stolid peasant at a corner; for on such an occasion, I scarcely know which is the more troubled, or whether it is worse to suffer the confusion of your troubadour6, or the unfeigned alarm of your clown. A sedentary population, accustomed, besides, to the strange mechanical bearing of the common tramp, can in no wise explain to itself the gaiety of these passers-by. I knew one man who was arrested as a runaway lunatic, because although a full-grown person with a red beard, he skipped as he went like a child. And you would be astonished if I were to tell you all the grave and learned heads who have confessed to me that, when on walking tours, they sang—and sang very ill—and had a pair of red ears when, as described above, the inauspicious peasant plumped into their arms from round a corner.
亚里士多德论友谊（1）
[古希腊]亚里士多德
古人将友谊视为最好的美德。友谊是幸福或生命旺盛的基本要素。亚里士多德说：“因为没有朋友，人不会选择生存，即使他拥有其他所有的好东西。”在当今道德败坏的世界，这些话值得我们去牢记。
根据亚里士多德所说，友谊是或涉及到一种品格、一种德行的状态。友谊可分为三种：以与他人为伴的快乐为基础的友谊(快乐的友谊)；以与他人结交的裨益为基础的友谊(裨益的友谊)；以相互的倾慕之情为基础的友谊(有德行的友谊)。这三种友谊都是幸福生活的基本条件，所有这些对于健康的生活均是必不可少的。最好的朋友不仅仅是倾慕彼此的优点，而且要在彼此的交往中寻找快乐，寻找共同的裨益。下面是亚里士多德的一段经典演说。
由于友谊建立的动机各不相同，所以人们各自的情感和友谊也不尽相同。那么，友谊有三种类型，其主体对象也有三种，因为在每一种友谊中，彼此可能都有与之相一致的“相互明了的共同感情”。
就建立友谊的动机来看，那些以友谊而互相对待的人，需要从对方那里获得利益。相应地，那些以获益为目的的人，除非能从对方那里得到一定的利益，否则彼此间是不会存在真正的友谊的。
而以快乐为动机的人同样如此。我指的是，他们与诙谐幽默之人结交，并不是因为对方本身的性格，而是因为他们能给自己带来欢乐。所以，他们建立友谊的动机就在于，利用关爱朋友来使自己快乐，也就是说，他们不是爱其朋友本身，而是因为他们有用或能带来欢乐。这些友谊只会得出一种结果：由于友谊中爱的并不是对方本身，而是因为在一定情形下，它能提供益处或带来欢乐。
当然，如果友谊双方不再有类似之处，这样的友谊便很容易解体。我的意思是说，如果友谊中的一方不能再带来快乐，或提供益处，另一方便会停止他们的友谊。功利的本性并不是永恒的，而是持续变化的，所以，当他们建立友谊时的动机消失时，友谊当然也要解体，因为它只能在相应的环境中存在……
那些在品德高尚的人，且有相似德行的人之间存在的友谊才是完美的。因为这些人要求对方有类似的德行。在他们之间，有好的德行(自身的德行)。而那些因为希望朋友有德行而建立友谊的人，尤其可称得上朋友，因为他们觉得这样正是发自于他们自身内心，而并非仅仅为了一种结果。所以他们之间的友谊会恒久。而我们知道，德行具有恒久性……
这种友谊很少有，因为这样的人很少有。另外，除了要具备这些素质以外，还需要时间和密切的来往。因为正如常言所说的那样，只有一起吃过很多盐的人才能彼此熟知。而且，只有彼此相互肯定，互相欣赏，他们才能亲密接触，才能成为朋友。那些很快准备友好交往的人，或许我们就可以说他们希望成为朋友了。但是，如果他们不是合适的对象，也不能得到对方的承认的话，他们就不是朋友。也就是说，对交友的渴望也许能够很快引发交友，而不是友谊。
■
友谊不仅仅是相识，也不仅仅是感情。友谊往往源于彼此的兴趣和共同目标，它们因或早或迟产生的善意冲动而得到加强。友谊所需要的是坦率，揭示自己内心的思想感情，认真地对待朋友的批评，一如对待他们的倾慕与赞美。
Aristotle on Friendship
Aristotle
The ancients listed friendship among the highest of virtues. It was an essential element in the happy or fully flourishing life. “For without friends,” Aristotle says, “no one would choose to live, though he had all other goods.” Words worth remembering in a world of perishable “goods.”
初雪（2）
这时情况又在变化。光亮已经消逝，那恐怖的迹象也荡然无存。雪下得正紧，大片大片柔软的雪花洋洋洒洒，因而人们几乎看不清对面那浅浅的山谷，厚厚的积雪压着屋顶，树木也都弯下了腰，映着影影绰绰的空茫，依然能清晰地看见乡村教堂的风标，然而它已变成安徒生笔下的某种动物了。我的书房独立于整所房子，从这儿我可以看到幼儿室的孩子们把鼻尖紧紧地贴在窗户玻璃上。突然，我的脑海里响起一首儿歌，虽然音韵不协调，但在我孩提时，鼻尖紧贴着冰冷的玻璃凝视着飘舞的雪花时，总唱起它：
雪花，雪花，飘得快：
洁白的雪花真可爱!
苏格兰宰了多少鹅，
片片鹅毛这边飘落!
First Snow
John Boynton Priestley
Mr. Robert Lynd once remarked1 of Jane Austen’s characters:“They are people in whose lives a slight fall of snow is an event.” Even at the risk of appearing to this witty and genial critic as another Mr. Woodhouse, I must insist that last night’s fall of snow here was an event. I was nearly as excited about it this morning as the children, whom I found all peering through the nursery2 window at the magic outside and chattering as excitedly as if Christmas had suddenly come round again. The fact is, however, that the snow was as strange and enchanting to me as it was to them. It is the first fall we have had here this winter, and last year I was out of the country, broiling in the tropics, during the snowy season, so that it really does seem an age since I saw the ground so fantastically carpeted. It was while I was away last year that I met the three young girls from British Guiana who had just returned from their first visit to England. The two things that had impressed them most were the endless crowds of people in the London street, all strangers (they emphasized this, for they had spent all their lives in a little town where everybody knows everybody), and the snow-covered landscape they awoke to, one morning when they were staying somewhere in Somerset. They were so thrilled and delighted that they flung away any pretence of being demure young ladies and rushed out of the house to run to and fro across the glittering white expanses, happily scattering footmarks on the untrodden surface, just as the children did in the garden this morning.
The first fall of snow is not only an event but it is a magical event. You go to bed in one kind of world and wake up to find yourself in another quite different, and if this is not enchantment, then where is it to be found? The very stealth3, the eerie quietness, of the thing makes it more magical. If all the snow fell at once in one shattering crash, awakening us in the middle of the night the event would be robbed of its wonder. But it flutters down, soundless, hour after hour while we are asleep. Outside the closed curtains of the bedroom a vast transformation scene is taking place, just as if a myriad elves and brownies were at work, and we turn and yawn and stretch and know nothing about it. And then, what an extraordinary change it is! It is as if the house you are in had been dropped down in another continent. Even the inside, which has not been touched, seems different, every room appearing smaller and cosier, just as if some power were trying to turn it into a woodcutter’s hut or a snug log-cabin. Outside, where the garden was yesterday, there is now a white and glistening level, and the village beyond is no longer your own familiar cluster of roofs but a village in an old German fairy-tale. You would not be surprised to learn that all the people there, the spectacled postmistress, the cobbler, the retired school master, and the rest, had suffered a change too and had become queer elvish beings, purveyors of invisible caps and magic shoes. You yourselves do not feel quite the same people you were yesterday. How could you when so much has been changed? There is a curious4 stir, a little shiver of excitement, troubling the house, not unlike the feeling there is abroad when a journey has to be made. The children, of course, are all excitement but even the adults hang about and talk to one another longer than usual before settling down to the day’s work. Nobody can resist the windows. It is like being on board a ship.
培根论真理
[英国]弗兰西斯·培根
真理只能自我判别，教导人们追寻真理，即对真理的追求；对真理的认知，对真理的信仰，也意味着对真理的享受。这三个要素组成了人性中无比高尚的美德。感性之光是上帝创造世界时创造的第一件东西，最后创造的才是理性之光。上帝精神的再现则是安息日。起初，上帝将光明赋予混乱的物质世界，然后用光明悄然地点亮人类的心灵世界；现在他依然把圣光赐予其所恩选的臣民。有一派哲学在其他方面没有什么实际作用，可其中有一位诗人说了一句经典名言：依在海岸边，注视着在大海中飘荡的船帆，是一件快乐的事情；靠在城堡垛口，注视激战中的战场，也是一件快乐的事；但没有什么能赶得上站在真理的前沿(那是一座谁也无法侵占的山岭，那里空气清爽，万籁寂静)，观察山谷中的错误、迷茫、薄雾与风暴，那更是叫人欢欣雀跃。并且这种期望的态度是同情，而非自满或自大。的确，假如一个人的想法中满是仁爱，顺应天意，走在真理的前沿，即便生活在人间，也不逊于天堂。前面讲了神学与哲学意义上的真理，现在来讨论一下日常生活中的真理。品格恶劣、精于世故的人，也被迫接受光明正大——人类的一种崇高品德。虚伪如同用金银合金制成硬币，即便可以增大金属的硬度，却贬低了其内在的真正价值。虚伪与欺诈如同弯曲的小路，唯有走路时依靠肚腹而不是双脚的毒蛇，才选择这条道路。假如一个说谎话、背信弃义的人露出了破绽，由此带来的羞耻感是没有办法掩盖的。因此，蒙田在议论“谎言”一词为何如此让人厌恶时，说过这样一句至理明言：“我们不如这样想，一个人说自己在上帝面前肆意妄为，而在凡人面前却很懦弱，这同说谎没有什么区别。”因为谎言可以面对上帝，却不敢面对凡人。当然，在描述虚伪与背信弃义的危害性时，恳求上帝对世世代代的人类进行裁决，他们无疑是最后的警钟。人们预示：耶稣灵魂来到世上后，他在地球上不会找到丝毫信仰。
■
追寻真理，即对真理的珍爱；认识真理，信仰真理，即是对真理的享受。站在海岸上，观看颠簸于大海之上的船帆，是一种乐趣；站在城堡垛口，观看激战中的战场，也是一种乐趣；但什么也比不上站在真理的前哨，洞察山谷中的谬误、彷徨、迷雾与风暴更令人欢欣。真理已渗透进我们的生活。
Francis Bacon on Truth
Francis Bacon
In this famous essay, first published in 1625, Francis Bacon declares that truth in the philosophical and theological sense, as well as honesty in the civil1 business sense, are the “sovereign2 good of human nature.”
Truth, which only doth judge itself, teacheth that the inquiry of truth, which is the love-making or wooing of it, the knowledge of truth, which is the presence of it, and the belief of truth, which is the enjoying of it, is the sovereign good of human nature. The first creature of God, in the works of the days, was the light of the sense; the last was the light of reason; and his sabbath3 work ever since is the illumination of his Spirit. First he breathed light upon the face of the matter or chaos; then he breathed light into the face of man; and still he breatheth and inspireth light into the face of his chosen. The poet that beautified the sect that was otherwise inferior to the rest saith yet excellently well: It is a pleasure to stand upon the shore and to see ships tossed upon the sea; a pleasure to stand in the window of a castle and to see a battle and the adventures thereof below; but no pleasure is comparable to the standing upon the vantage4 ground of truth (a hill not to be commanded, and where the air is always clear and serene), and to see the errors and wanderings and mists and tempests in the vale below; so always that this prospect be with pity, and not with swelling or pride. Certainly, it is heaven upon earth to have a man’s mind move in charity, rest in providence, and turn upon the poles of truth.
To pass from theological and philosophical truth to the truth of civil business: it will be acknowledged even by those that practice it not that clear and round dealing is the honor of man’s nature; and that mixture of falsehood is like alloy in coin of gold and silver, which may make the metal work the better, but it embaseth it. For these winding and crooked courses are the goings of the serpent, which goeth basely upon the belly, and not upon the feet. There is no vice that doth so cover a man with shame as to be found false and perfidious5. And therefore Montaigne said prettily, when he inquired the reason why the word of the lie should be such a disgrace and such an odious charge. Saith he, If it be well weighed, to say that a man lieth is as much to say as that he is brave toward God and a coward toward men. For a lie faces God, and shrinks from man. Surely the wickedness of falsehood and breach of faith cannot possibly be so highly expressed as in that it shall be the last peal to call the judgments of God upon the generations of men; it being foretold that when Christ cometh, he shall not find faith upon the earth.
生命
[美国]拉尔夫·瓦尔多·爱默生
生命可以被想象，但是不能被割裂，也不能被复制。生命的整体一旦被破坏就会引起混乱。灵魂不是孪生儿，而是独生苗。虽然它早晚都要像婴儿那样被孕育成熟，长得也像婴儿，却有着一种无敌的力量能决定命运，不会接受同一个生命。生命有着一种唯我独尊的神圣，这种神圣无须掩盖，每一天都显露在人们的举手投足之间。我们对自己深信不疑，同时去怀疑他人。我们可以让自己为所欲为，但同样的事，别人做，我们称之为罪孽；我们只要自己来实验。我们充满自信的一个例子就是：人们从来不像他们想象的那样蔑视罪恶。换句话说，人人都为自己想好一个不受约束的自由，而这个自由是不能让别人来享用的。
行为从内在和外表，从性质和后果去看，各不相同。凶手行凶时所抱的意图决不像诗人以及传奇作家所描述的那样伤天害理，通常人们也觉察不出他心神不宁或诚惶诚恐的蛛丝马迹。行凶一事并不难谋划，但去考虑后果的话，它却能越演越烈，发出一系列叮当作响的恐怖声，把一切的关联都破坏。尤其是爱情所激发的罪行，从施罪者的角度看，似乎一切都理所当然，但这罪恶毕竟贻害社会。然而，还是没有人会最终相信犯罪的人是迷失了自我，还是没有人会认为那罪行如同重罪犯的所为那么罪不可赦。这是因为，就我们自身的情形而言，智力修正着道义判断，在智力的眼中，世上万事并无罪过。智力是反律法主义或超律法主义的，它判断着法律就像判断着事实一样。
Life
Ralph Waldo Emerson
Life will be imaged, but cannot be divided nor doubled. Any invasion of its unity would be chaos1. The soul is not twin born, but the only begotten, and though revealing itself as child in time, child in appearance, is of a fatal and universal power, admitting no co-life. Every day, every act betrays the ill-concealed deity. We believe in ourselves, as we do not believe in others. We permit all things to ourselves, and that which we call sin in others, is experiment for us. It is an instance of our faith in ourselves, that men never speak of crime as lightly as they think, or, every man thinks a latitude2 safe for himself, which is nowise to be indulged to another.
The act looks very differently on the inside， and on the outside; in its quality, and its consequences. Murder in the murderer is no such ruinous thought as poets and romancers will have it; it does not unsettle him, or fright him from his ordinary notice of trifles: it is an act quite easy to be contemplated, but in its sequel, it turns out to be a horrible jangle and confounding all relations. Especially the crimes that spring from love, seem right and fair from the actor’s point of view, but, when acted, are found destructive of society. No man at last believes that he can be lost, nor that the crime in him is as black as in the felon. Because the intellect qualifies in our own case the moral judgments. For there is no crime to the intellect. That is antinomian or hypernomian, and judges law as well as fact.
亚里士多德论友谊（2）
According to Aristotle, friendship either is, or it involves, a state of character, a virtue. There are three kinds of friendship. These are based on pleasure in another’s company (friendship of pleasure), or on usefulness in association (friendships of utility), or on mutual admiration (friendships in virtue). All are essential to the good life, and the best sorts of friends will not only admire each other’s excellence, but take pleasure in each other’s company and find their association of mutual advantage. Here is a portion of Aristotle’s classic discussion.
As the motives to Friendship differ in kind, so do the respective feelings and Friendships. The species then of Friendship are three, in number equal to the objects of it, since in the line of each there may be “mutual affection mutually known.”
Now they who have Friendship for one another desire one another’s good according to the motive of their Friendship; accordingly they whose motive is utility have no Friendship for one another really, but only insofar as some good arises to them from one another.
And they whose motive is pleasure are in like case: I mean，they have Friendship for men of easy pleasantry, not because they are of a given character but because they are pleasant to themselves. So then they whose motive to Friendship is utility love their friends for what is good to themselves; they whose motive is pleasure do so for what is pleasurable to themselves; that is to say, not insofar as the friend beloved is but insofar as he is useful or pleasurable. These Friendships then are a matter of result: since the object is not beloved in that he is the man he is but in that he furnishes advantage or pleasure as the case may be.
Such Friendships are of course very liable to dissolution if the parties do not continue alike: I mean, that the others cease to have any Friendship for them when they are no longer pleasurable or useful. Now it is the nature of utility not to be permanent but constantly varying: so, of course, when the motive which made them friends is vanished, the Friendship likewise dissolves; since it existed only relatively to those circumstances...
That then is perfect Friendship which subsists between those who are good and whose similarity consists in their goodness: for these men wish one another’s good in similar ways; insofar as they are good (and good they are in themselves); and those are specially friends who wish good to their friends for their sakes, because they feel thus toward them on their own account and not as a mere matter of result; so the Friendship between these men continues to subsist so long as they are good; and goodness, we know, has in it a principle of permanence ...
Rare it is probable Friendships of this kind will be, because men of this kind are rare. Besides, all requisite qualifications being presupposed, there is further required time and intimacy: for, as the proverb says, men cannot know one another“till they have eaten the requisite quantity of salt together”; nor can they in fact admit one another to intimacy, much less be friends, till each has appeared to the other and been proved to be a fit object of Friendship. They who speedily commence an interchange of friendly actions may be said to wish to be friends, but they are not so unless they are also proper objects of Friendship and mutually known to be such: that is to say, a desire for Friendship may arise quickly but not Friendship itself.
初雪（3）
When I got up this morning the world was a chilled hollow of dead white and faint blues. The light that came through the windows was very queer, and it contrived to make the familiar business of splashing and shaving and brushing and dressing very queer too. Then the sun came out, and by the time I had sat down to breakfast. It was shining bravely and flushing the snow with delicate5 pinks. The dining room window had been transformed into a lovely Japanese print. The little plum-tree outside, with the faintly flushed snow lining its boughs and artfully disposed along its trunk, stood in full sunlight. An hour or two later everything was a cold glitter of white and blue. The world had completely changed again. The little Japanese prints had all vanished. I looked out of my study window, over the garden, the meadow, to the low hills beyond, and the ground was one long glare, the sky was steely, and all the trees so many black and sinister shapes. There was indeed something curiously sinister about the whole prospect. It was as if our kindly country-side, close to the very heart of England, had been turned into a cruel steppe. At any moment, it seemed, a body of horsemen might be seen breaking out from the black copse, so many instruments of tyranny might be heard and some distant patch of snow be reddened. It was that kind of landscape.
Now it has changed again. The glare has gone and no touch of the sinister remains. But the snow is falling heavily, in great soft flakes, so that you can hardly see across the shallow valley, and the roofs are thick and the trees all bending, and the weathercock of the village church, still to be seen through the grey loaded air, has become some creature out of Hans Andersen. From my study, which is part from the house and faces it, I can see the children flattening their noses against the nursery window, and there is running through my head a jangle of rhyme I used to repeat when I was a child and flattened my nose against the cold window watching the falling snow:
Snow, snow faster:
White alabaster!
Killing geese in Scotland,
Sending feathers here!
玫瑰（3）
The old gentleman, however, seemed cheerful enough; and it was plain that he took an interest in the strangers, and wished to make their acquaintance. This was soon effected by the friendly waiter; and after a little talk the old man invited them to visit his villa and garden which were just outside the walls of the town. So the next afternoon, when the sun began to descend, and they saw in glimpses through doorways and windows, blue shadows beginning to spread over the brown mountains, they went to pay their visit. It was not much of a place, a small, modernized, stucco villa4, with a hot pebbly garden, and in it a stone basin with torpid gold fish, and a statue of Diana and her hounds against the wall. But what gave a glory to it was a gigantic rose-tree which clambered over the house, almost smothering the windows, and filling the air with the perfume of its sweetness. Yet, it was a fine rose, the Conte said proudly when they praised it, and he would tell the Signora about it. And as they sat there, drinking the wine he offered them, he alluded with the cheerful indifference of old age to his love affair, as though he took for granted that they had heard of it already.
“The lady lived across the valley there beyond that hill. I was a young man then, for it was many years ago. I used to ride over to see her; it was a long way, but I rode fast, for young men, as no doubt the Signora knows, are impatient. But the lady was not kind, she would keep me waiting , oh, for hours; and one day when I had waited very long I grew very angry, and as I walked up and down in the garden where she had told me she would see me, I broke one of her roses, broke a branch from it; and when I saw what I had done, I hid it inside my coat so, and when I came home I planted it, and the Signora sees how it has grown. If the Signora admires it, I must give her a cutting to plant also in her garden; I am told the English have beautiful gardens that are green, and not burnt with the sun like ours.”
The next day, when their mended carriage had come up to fetch them, and they were just starting to drive away from the inn, the Conte’s old servant appeared with the rose-cutting neatly5 wrapped up, and the compliments and wishes for a buon viaggio from her master. The town collected to see them depart, and the children ran after their carriage through the gate of the little city. They heard a rush of feet behind them for a few moments, but soon they were far down toward the valley; the little town with all its noise and life was high above them on its mountain peak.
She had planted the rose at home, where it had grown and flourished in a wonderful manner; and every June the great mass of leaves and shoots still broke out into a passionate splendour of scent and crimson colour, as if in its root and fibres there still burnt the anger and thwarted desire of that Italian lover. Of course the old Conte must have died many years ago; she had forgotten his name, and had even forgotten the name of the mountain city that she had stayed in, after first seeing it twinkling at dawn in the sky, like a nest of stars.
蜉蝣（1）
[美国]本杰明·富兰克林
亲爱的朋友，你可记得，上次我们在芍丽磨坊那儿让人愉快的花园中参加社团活动的那天，我曾在散步时独自停留了一会儿，落在了人群的后面。是因为有人指给我们看了一种苍蝇一类的小昆虫的残尸——蜉蝣。据说，它们的生命非常短，在一天时间里，可以生生死死好几代。那天，我碰巧在一片叶子上见到了一群鲜活的蜉蝣，它们看上去正忙着交谈。你是知道的，我几乎能懂得所有低等动物的语言。也许，我对研究它们语言的极大热心却成为我在学习你们美妙语言时少有进步的最好借口了。我好奇地倾听着这些小生物的对话，然而它们却在以自己的方式，三个一群，四个一伙地讨论着，我只能听清其中一部分对话。尽管如此，我还是从那些只言片语中听出，它们正在热烈地争论着两位国外音乐家谁的成就更为杰出。这两位音乐家中一位是蚋先生，另一位是蚊先生。它们热烈地讨论着，似乎忘了生命的短暂，好像可以活一个月之久似的。多么快乐啊！我想：你们一定是在一种贤明公正、宽仁待民的政府之下。因为你们既没有抱怨与牢骚，也没有任何的党派之争，而是在颇有闲情地讨论着外国音乐的完美与不完美之处。我将头转向它们中一个白头发的老者，它独自在另一片叶子上自言自语。我觉得它的独白非常有趣，于是把它们记了下来，并且希望这些话同样博她一笑，算作我对她的报答。因为我已受到好友太多的深情厚意，她的清风明月的风度，她的妙音雅奏，一向使我倾倒不已。
老蜉蝣说：“这是在很久很久以前，一位著名哲人认为：我们这个世界——即芍丽磨坊，其生存时间不会超过18小时。我想，这个观点一定是有所根据的。因为，太阳通过运动赋予了大自然生命，而在我的这个年代里，太阳正在自东往西地移动，明显已经落得很低了，快要沉到我们地球尽头的海洋里去了。太阳必将结束自己的行程，被围绕在我们周围的海水所吞噬，世界变得寒冷与黑暗，万物都将死亡与毁灭。我已活过了七个小时，一段看起来不短的时间，足足有420分钟！我们中很少有人能够如此长寿。我目睹了一代又一代人繁衍生息，寿终正寝。我现在的朋友，都是我儿时伙伴的孩子或孙子，而我那些儿时的伙伴却早已不在了。不久，我也会随他们而去，这是自然的规律。虽然目前我还很健康，但是我并不奢望我还能活上个七八分钟。现在我所有的精力都集中在收集这片叶子上的蜜露上，虽然我生前已不可能享受了。我一直热心的政治斗争也是为了居住在这个灌木丛中的所有我的同胞们的利益；我所作的哲学研究同样也是为了我们整个民族共同的利益。可是在政治上，法律没有道德的配合，政治仍旧不能清明。我们现在这一族蜉蝣必须随时警惕，不然在几分钟内，就可能变得像别的老一些的灌木丛中的蜉蝣那样腐化，万劫不复！在哲学这方面，我们的成就是多么渺小啊！唉！艺术是永恒的，而生命则是有限的。我的朋友们曾这样安慰我，说我活的时间长得足够让我的名字在我死后流芳千古。但是对于一个已死的蜉蝣来说，名声又有什么意义呢？何况到了第18个小时的时候，整个芍丽磨坊将会消亡，世界末日已来临，还谈得上什么历史呢？”
对我来说，经过了对所有渴望的追求，别无乐趣了，唯有想起世间众生，人虫不分，如能长寿而为大众服务，这是可以引为自慰的；其次则听听蜉蝣太太与蜉蝣小姐们的高谈阔论，或者说偶然从那可爱的白夫人那里，得到巧笑一顾，或者是婉歌一曲，我的暮年也得到安慰了。
■
就像这只蜉蝣所说，“艺术是永恒的，而生命则是有限的”，那何不在这短暂的生命中将事情尽量做到完美呢？
人的青春（1）
[美国]托马斯·沃尔夫
■
托马斯·沃尔夫（1900—1938）美国小说家。沃尔夫生于美国北卡罗莱纳州山区小城阿什维尔。父亲是雕凿墓碑的石匠，母亲当过书籍推销员和教师。他在大学期间开始创作，写过几个独幕剧。他的小说被认为有很强的自传性质，他的家人和他个人都成为他的小说人物原形，因此有人说他的作品是小说化的编年史。遗憾的是，读过他的代表作《天使，望故乡》的人很少。沃尔夫短暂的一生还留下其他三部小说：《时间和河流》《珠网和岩石》《何不能再回家》，此外还有数十篇中、短篇小说。他仅以这些作品就在美国文学史上获得了与海明威、福克纳和刘易斯差不多同等的地位。
一个人的青春是件令人惊奇的事：它满是苦恼和神奇，直到青春逝去，他才明白青春的真正内涵。青春是一个人不肯轻易失去的东西，每当他怀着无尽的悲痛和悔恨，亲眼看着青春流逝，他一定会遗憾终生。但是对于青春的逝去，他又怀着一种忧愁而神秘的快感，即使有种魔力能让他青春永驻，他也永远不愿再次重新体验。
这是为什么呢？是因为在青春期，生命的奇异和苦涩表现得最为显著。但是，这种生命的奇异和苦涩的本质是什么呢？在我们年轻的时候，它让我们带着苦涩的痛苦和喜悦，感觉得如此强烈、如此难以形容。其本质就是：即便我们富有，却很贫穷；即便权势在握，却一无所有；即便到处看着、吸着、闻着、尝着这世上不计其数的财富和荣耀，以无可争议的自信断定这精彩人生的所有组成结构——最大的幸运、财富、人类生活中最美好快乐的生活——属于我们所有——在我们准备一投足、一举手、一开口的瞬间，就会立刻、马上、永远地归我们所有——然而，我们感到能真正保留、维持、带走和拥有的实际上什么都没有。所有的事情都发生了，没有事情会持久不变：我们才把它放到手上，它就烟消云散，不复存在；魔鬼又开始吞噬我们的心灵；然后我们才看清自己，看清我们生命的方向。
年轻人强健，疯狂，自信，但同样也会很失落。他拥有一切，却无以致用，他永远都靠着强健的体魄，对着心中的障碍知难而上；他是一股波浪，在无限的苍穹下，在海洋中爆发自己的力量，他伸出手，去抓一缕着色的轻烟；他想拥有一切，渴求世间所有的东西，觉得自己有力量得到它们，而结果却徒劳无功。最后，自己的力量毁灭了他，自己的欲望吞噬了他，自己的财富让他变得一贫如洗。在钱财和物质财富积累方面没有规划，到了最后还是自己的贪婪打倒了自己——即便是得米达斯国王的欲望与其相比也显得无足轻重。
当青春已逝，每个人都会怀着无尽的悲哀和遗憾回首那段生活，其原因也在于此。一个人自己荒废自己的伟大天赋；自己有成就一切事业的能力，却从未使用，知道了这一切，他就会感到更悲痛、更悔恨。
■
青春是美好的，充满幻想的；青春是一本包罗万象的书；青春是情感与理智交错的画。充满激情的青春，不能永驻，所以更应该加倍珍惜，珍惜这短暂而又宝贵的时光。
青春是青涩的，这里满载着懵懂和莽撞，这个时期的人们不会有太多的考虑，只是做自己开心的事情，不管对错都是那么一往无前。
但是，我们不得不承认：青春的确很美好。
Man’s Youth
Thomas Wolfe
Man’s youth is a wonderful thing. It is so full of anguish1 and of magic and he never comes to know it as it is, until it has gone from him forever. It is the thing he cannot bear to lose, it is the thing whose passing he watches with infinite2 sorrow and regret, it is the thing whose loss he must lament forever, and it is the thing whose loss he really welcomes with a sad and secret joy, the thing he would never willingly relive again, could it be restored to him by any magic.
亚里士多德论自律（1）
[古希腊]亚里士多德
亚里士多德告诉我们，人类是自己行为的累积，因此习性造就了不同的我们。《尼各马可伦理学》让我们懂得，道德的美德是从实践中产生的，就像掌握各种艺术或机械技能一样。那么，实践的最佳途径是什么呢？亚里士多德在他的“中庸之道”解释中作出了回答。在他看来，在某种特定的情况下，正确的道德行为是介于两种邪恶极端的中庸之道。我们通过确定倾向于哪种邪恶，然后有意识地朝着相反的邪恶移动，最后达到中庸，以此来实践正确的道德行为。
美德有两种，即智慧的美德与道德的美德。智慧的美德是由教谕产生与发展的，因此它需要有充足的经验与时间。道德的美德来自习惯……这些美德既不是生来就为我们所有，也不是逆天性而为，而是靠自然赋予的能力来获得的，并且我们在习惯中使它们有所发展……正如其他艺术一样。这些美德是在我们初次笃行它们的过程中获得的，不管我们学习什么，都是在真正去做的过程中学到。比如，人们通过建筑才成为了建筑师；通过演奏竖琴才成为了竖琴演奏家。同样，在日常生活中，我们言行正直才成为了正直之人；平素里坚持自制才成为了克己之人；时常勇敢行事才成为了勇敢之人……
人际关系中，我们如何待人待物，决定了我们能否成为正直之人。如何面对危险的境况，是对自己有信心还是担心畏惧，决定了我们成为勇敢之人还是怯懦之人。欲望与愤怒亦是如此：在这样的情况下，有些人在它们的指导下变得能自制、有耐性；而另一些人则变得冲动、不能自制。总之，行动衍生出相应的性格与气质。所以我们必须对我们的行动赋予某种特性……简而言之，我们儿时养成的习惯可以造就巨大的不同，甚至可以说造成完全不同的结果。
道德的美德是一种介于两种极端——过度和缺乏——之间的美德……是以达到情感与行为中庸为目的。要做到这一点很难，因为在过度与缺乏中寻找到中庸的确很难，其难度不低于找到一个圆的圆心。恼怒或者花钱都很容易——任何一个人都能做到。但是要在恰当的时间、恰当的场合，用恰当的态度去应对恰当的人就不容易了，也并非每个人都能做到。
因此，追求中庸之道的人，首先应当小心远离比另一端更有悖于中庸的一端……因为两端之中总有一端错误更多。因为达到中庸之道相当困难，因此我们只能退而求其次，将邪恶分成最少的作为我们最安全的准备……
我们应该注意经常犯的各种错误。它们因人而异，我们将在痛苦与欢乐中找到自己经常犯的错误。发现自己的错误后，必须强迫自己向相反的方向发展。因为只有远离自己的过失才能达到中庸之道，这就如同我们将一块弯曲的木头重新展平一样。但是无论在何种情况下，我们都应该提防带来欢乐之事以及享乐本身，因为我们无法对之作出公正的裁决……
这一点非常清楚：在我们的所有行为中，中庸之道是一种最受人称道的境界。但是在实际情况中，我们有时会倾向于过度，有时倾向于缺乏，因此这就是达到中庸之道的最简洁的方式，亦即正确之道。
■
真正的自由都要受到一定的约束和限制，没有任何限制、不约束的自由是不存在的，这是自律中的一个重要的知识。所以，自律，能使人获得行动的自由。学会自律，是解决人生问题的首要工具，也是消除人生痛苦的重要手段。通过自律，我们就知道在面对问题时，如何以坚毅、果敢的态度，从学习与成长中获得益处。
Aristotle on Self-Discipline
Aristotle
We are the sum of our actions, Aristotle tells us, and therefore our habits make all the difference. Moral virtue, we learn in this discussion from the Nicomachean Ethics, comes with practice, just like the mastery of any art or mechanical skill. And what is the best way to practice? Aristotle’s answer lies in his explanation of “the mean.” In his view, correct moral behavior in any given situation lies at the midway point between the extremes of two vices. We must practice hitting the mean by determining which vice we tend toward and then consciously moving toward the other extreme, until we reach the middle.
暴风雨礼赞（1）
佚名
一种沉静的感觉悄然爬上心头，我感到世间万物突然变得安静下来。鸟儿止住了啁啾，树叶不再沙沙作响，昆虫也停止了鸣唱。
干燥炎热了一天的空气，这时渐渐阴沉起来。它悬挂在树梢上，把花朵都压低了，也压在我的肩头。我隐约感到有些不安，于是走到窗前，发现西天边的云朵层峦叠嶂，形成了一座座威严的白塔，直通蓝天。
云朵耀眼的白光瞬间消失。转眼间，棉花糖似的云团像铁砧一般铺展开来，尽显它阴冷的本性。西斜的太阳被它挡住了，于是天早早地暗了下来。紧接着，狂风突起，路上的尘土被它席卷而起，空气变得凉飕飕的，预示着即将到来的一切。
砰的一声，风把一扇房门关上了，窗帘也随之鼓起，在房间里翻腾着。我赶紧跑去关上窗户，收好晾晒的衣服，盖好院子里的家具。这时，隆隆的雷声开始从远处传来。
大滴的雨点开始落下来。雨滴不断地砸入尘土，在窗户上涂上点点印记。它们打在烟囱上，发出叮叮当当的响声；砸在露台的顶棚上，也是乒乒乓乓直响。树叶似乎也抵挡不住雨点的打压，在风雨中摇曳着不敢抬起头来。人行道也仿佛穿上了一件缀满闪亮的雨滴的外衣。
雨点下落的节奏更快了，叮当声、乒乓声，一阵接一阵，最终成了紧凑的鼓声。点点雨滴也汇成浩荡大军，覆盖了田野和屋顶。就在这时，天堂的感叹号——第一道闪电劈向大地，暴风雨来了!
紧接着的一个霹雳，吓得我跳了起来。这一声雷把窗户的玻璃都震得咯咯作响，小狗也吓得直往床底下钻。第二道闪电来得更近，我吓得毛发竖起，情不自禁地从窗口向后退了一步。此刻，雨点倾盆而泻，愈加猛烈地摆弄着雨点。风雨交织着，毫无顾忌地抽打着树木，打压着小草。雨水溢出了排水沟，从屋顶喷涌而出，不断地泼洒在窗户上。除了雨水，我无法看清外面的世界。真不明白，这么多雨水，怎么会下得如此急？那么云朵又是如何撑起这巨大重量的？大地又怎能承受得了？
我在屋里转来转去，从一个窗口走到另一个窗口。我不禁为窗外的情景惊讶不已：那些紫丁香在暴风雨的攻击下弯了腰，百合花倒伏在地上，山坡的石阶小道变成了一帘全新的瀑布！这时，屋顶上传来乒乒乓乓的声音——开始下冰雹了。这些银色的小球在草地上恣意狂舞，落到水洼里溅起许多水花。我开始为菜园、果树和地里的庄稼担心起来。幸好，上帝保佑，这场冰雹还不算大，数目也不算多，不足以造成什么损害。
暴风雨快要结束了。紧张的空气缓和下来，透过雨幕的光线也多起来。暴风雨已经消耗了大部分的精力，那点余威只有到东边的乡间去炫耀了。
尽管雨还没有停，我早已禁不住跑到屋外了。四周荡漾着清爽宜人的气息。我尽情地呼吸着新鲜的空气，看着一缕缕穿过云隙的阳光。有一束阳光刚好照在屋檐的水珠上，形成了一条细小的、颤动的七色彩带——这是上天赋予我的独有的彩虹。
我小心翼翼地穿过湿漉漉的草地，双脚没在雨水浸泡过的泥土里。阴沟里的小溪满载着昏黄的泥水欢快地奔涌向前，而那些小水洼却早已流入地下，不见踪迹了。每一片树叶，每一片草叶，每块砖头，每片瓦片都被冲洗得新鲜干净、光亮艳丽。
像大地一样，我也焕然一新，灵魂得到了净化，心情变得平静安逸起来。一时间，忘记了积聚在心里的忧愁和恼恨，似乎它们已经被这壮观的暴风雨冲刷得无影无踪了。
■
暴风雨是激烈的，是强劲的，它洗刷着大地的万物，它使我的灵魂得到了净化，心情变得平静安逸。那忧愁和恼恨，被这壮观的暴风雨冲刷得无影无踪了。暴风雨来得猛烈，绝不会向大地妥协，它风驰电掣，从不放过世间任何一个角落。
人的青春（2）
Why is this? The reason is that the strange and bitter miracle of life is nowhere else so evident as in our youth. And what is the essence3 of that strange and bitter miracle of life which we feel so poignantly, so unutterably, with such a bitter pain and joy, when we are young? It is this: that being rich, we are so poor; that being mighty, we can yet have nothing; that seeing, breathing, smelling, tasting all around us the impossible wealth and glory of this earth, feeling with an intolerable certitude that the whole structure of the enchanted life—the most fortunate, wealthy, good and happy life that any man has ever known—is ours—is ours at once, immediately and forever, the moment that we choose to take a step, or stretch a hand, or say a word—we yet know that we can really keep, hold, take, and possess forever—nothing. All passes; nothing lasts; the moment that we put our hand upon it, it melts away like smoke, is gone forever, and the snake is eating at our heart again; we see then what we are and what our lives must come to.
A young man is so strong, so mad, so certain, and so lost. He has everything and he is able to use nothing. He hurls the great shoulder of his strength forever against phantasmal4 barriers, he is a wave whose power explodes in lost mid-oceans under timeless skies, he reaches out to grip a fume of painted smoke; he wants all, feels the thirst and power for everything, and finally gets nothing. In the end, he is destroyed by his own strength, devoured by his own hunger, improvised by his own wealth. Thoughtless of money or the accumulation of material possessions, he is none the less defeated in the end by his own greed—a greed that makes the avarice5 of King Midas seem paltry by comparison.
And that is the reason why, when youth is gone, every man will look back upon that period of his life with infinite sorrow and regret6. It is the bitter sorrow and regret of a man who knows that once he had a great talent and wasted it, of a man who knows that once he had a great treasure and got nothing from it, of a man who knows that he had strength enough for everything and never used it.
暴风雨礼赞（2）
Glories of the Storm
Anoymous
It begins when a feeling of stillness creeps into my consciousness. Everything has suddenly gone quiet. Birds do not chirp. Leaves do not rustle. Insects do not sing.
The air that has been hot all day becomes heavy. It hangs over the trees, presses the heads of the flowers to the ground, sits on my shoulders. With a vague feeling of uneasiness I move to the window. There, in the west, lies the answer—cloud has piled on cloud to form a ridge of mammoth white towers, rearing against blue sky.
Their piercing whiteness is of brief duration. Soon the marshmarrow rims flatten to anvil tops, and the clouds reveal their darker nature. They impose themselves before the late-afternoon sun, and the day darkens early. Then a gust of wind whips the dust along the road, chill warning of what is to come.
In the house a door shuts with a bang, curtains billow into the room. I rush to close the windows, empty the clothesline, secure the patio furnishing. Thunder begins to grumble in the distance.
The first drops of rain are huge. They splat into the dust and imprint the windows with the individual signatures. They plink on the vent pipe and plunk on the patio roof. Leaves shudder under their weight before rebounding, and the sidewalk wears a coat of shiny spots.
The rhythm accelerates; plink follows faster and faster until the sound is a roll of drums and the individual drops become an army marching over fields and rooftops. Now the first bolt of lightning stabs the earth. It is heaven’s exclamation point. The storm is here!
In spite of myself, I jump at the following crack of thunder. It rattles the windowpane and sends the dog scratching to get under the bed. The next bolt is even closer. It raises the hair on the back of my neck, and I take an involuntary step away from the window.
The rain now becomes a torrent, flung capriciously by a rising wind. Together they batter the trees and level the grasses. Water streams off roofs and out of rain spouts. It pounds against the window in such a steady wash that I am sightless. There is only water. How can so much fall so fast? How could the clouds have supported this vast weight? How can the earth endure beneath it?
Pacing through the house from window to window, I am moved to open-mouthed wonder. Look how the lilac bends under the assault, how the day lilies are flattened, how the hillside steps are a newmade waterfall! Now hailstones thumps upon the roof. They bounce white against the grass and splash into the puddles. I think of the vegetable garden, the fruit trees, the crops in the fields; but, thankfully, the hailstones are not enough in numbers or size to do real damage. Not this time.
For this storm is already beginning to pass. The tension is released from the atmosphere, the curtains of rain let in more light. The storm has spent most of its energy, and what is left will be expended on the countryside to the east.
I am drawn outside while the rain still falls. All around, there is a cool and welcome feeling. I breathe deeply and watch the sun’s rays streak through breaking clouds. One ray catches the drops that form on the edge of the roof, and I am treated to a row of tiny, quivering colors—my private rainbow.
I pick my way through the wet grass, my feet sinking into the satuarated soil. The creek in the gully runs bankfull of brown water, but the small lakes and puddles are already disappearing into the earth. Every leaf, brick, shingle and blade of grass is fresh-washed and shining.
Like the land, I am renewed, my spirit cleansed. I feel an infinite peace. For a time I have forgotten the worries and irritations I was nurturing before. They have been washed away by the glories of the storm.
晚夏（2）
Sometimes in the dark we heard the troops marching under the window and guns going past pulled by motor-tractors3. There was much traffic at night and many mules on the roads with boxes of ammunition4 on each side of their pack-saddles and gray motor-trucks that carried men, and other trucks with loads covered with canvas that moved slower in the traffic. There were big guns too that passed in the day drawn by tractors, the long barrels of the guns covered with green branches and green leafy branches and vines laid over the tractors. To the north we could look across a valley and see a forest of chestnut5 trees and behind it another mountain on this side of the river. There was fighting for that mountain too, but it was not successful, and in the fall when the rains came the leaves all fell from the chestnut trees and the branches were bare and the trunks black with rain. The vineyards were thin and bare, branched too and all the country wet and brown and dead with the autumn. There were mists over the river and clouds on the mountain and trucks splashed mud on the road and the troops were muddy and wet in their capes; their rifles were wet and under their capes the two leather cartridge-boxes on the front of belts, gray leather boxes heavy with the packs of clips of thin, long , bulged forward under the capes so that the men, passing on the road, marched as though they were six months gone with child.
郁金香（1）
[英国]约瑟夫·艾迪生
■
约瑟夫·艾迪生（1672—1719），英国著名作家。他于1672年生于英国一个乡村牧师家庭，后受教于牛津大学，并于1693年获得硕士学位。从1708年开始，艾迪生先后担任过议会议员、国务大臣助理、英国驻爱尔兰总督秘书等职。后曾为理查德·斯梯尔主编的《闲话报》撰写文章。1711年，他与斯梯尔合作创办报纸《旁观者》并担任主编。他的散文文风优美，文笔流畅，亲切通俗，主题明晰，对以后的散文作家有很大的影响。
今年夏天的一个清晨，我碰巧起得很早。于是，便跑去乡间散步，希望能在绿草丛中和田野间得到一份安逸。夏天，正是绿草芬芳，百花绽放的季节。每年一到这个时节，任何一条小路都是一片美妙的景色，任何一道篱笆上都点缀着鲜花。四周满是丛生的灌木，我快乐地沉浸在鸟儿委婉动听的歌唱声中。我已经在嘈杂和浓烟中熬过了整整一个冬天，眼前的景色可谓是人间仙境。清新的露水洒落在世间万物上（包括我），还有那清爽宜人的清晨空气，周围的一切不但让鸟儿焕发出欢快的本性，也让我感到丝丝喜悦，内心深处充溢着一种神秘的、无以言表的满足与快乐。在这样的情景下，我总是不由得想起弥尔顿诗行中那个精妙的比喻：
犹如长久禁锢于躁动的市井之人，择夏日的一个清晨，步出城墙，步出林立的房屋，步出水天污浊，吐纳于宜人的田间村舍。
乡间万物孕育着乐趣，谷物、干草、黄牛、牛乳，每一处农家美景，每一处乡间乐章。
那些熟悉这些名人佳作的人，在他们的脑海里总能浮现名人笔下反复出现的娇媚景色，因此他们更能从乡间美景中获得一份意外的乐趣。
正当我独自品味着弥尔顿的诗句时，忽然发现迎面飘来一团乌云，刹那间绵长的雨丝急坠而下。我赶忙起身，举目四望，向不远处的一座农舍跑去。当我坐在门廊中时，听到两三个人谈话的声音。他们似乎正在十分认真地争论着什么。听他们提到亚历山大大帝和阿塔克西斯的名字，我的好奇心立即被吸引了出来。因为他们争论的好像是古代英雄和伟人，我想里面应该不会有任何秘密。想到这儿，我想或许可以仔细地听一下他们的谈话。
他们先是比较了几个伟人。在我看来，这种比较根本毫无根据，纯属虚构。我十分诧异地听到其中一个人说，他认为黑色王子远比旺多姆公爵好得多。旺多姆公爵和黑色王子怎么能作比较呢？我感到非常不解。然后，我又听到第二个人斩钉截铁地说，如果德国皇帝不退位的话，那么他就最推崇德国皇帝。听到这里，我更是惊叹不已。这个人又补充说，尽管岁月如流水，但马尔伯勒公爵始终是风流倜傥。他们从哪里知道的这些谬论，我绞尽脑汁也想不明白。还有比这更荒谬的，他们还谈到了几位将军，其中就有黑森王子和瑞典国王。他们说这两个人现在正在逃亡中。后来他们所说的，我是完全同意的。他们提到法国国王身体虚弱，维拉尔元帅却仍旧精神饱满。最后，他们当中的一个人说，如果大家同意跟他一起去，他会叫他们看到一个扫烟囱的人和一个美丽的少女“同床共枕”。他确信，这样的场景一定会令大家非常开心。我和他们都是跑到这家农舍来避雨的，此时大雨已经停了。当他们从我身旁经过，朝花园走去的时候，我便要求加入到他们的队伍之中。
农舍的主人对我说，如果我对花感兴趣的话，很值得去花园看一看。因为他相信，他让我看的那片郁金香，在全国都找不出可以与之媲美的。
我接受了他的邀请，也马上明白刚才那几个人谈论的是园艺。他们所说的国王、将帅全是郁金香的名字。花匠们按照习惯做法赋予那些花头衔或称号。
艰辛的人生
[美国]西奥多·罗斯福
■
西奥多·罗斯福(1858—1919)，美国第26任总统、作家、探险家和军事家，毕业于哈佛大学，曾发表《勤奋地生活》演说，旨在针对19世纪末美国骄奢淫逸、贪图享乐之风盛行，凭借此文遏制当时的腐败现象。本文《艰辛的人生》也反映了他这种反对怠惰安逸、崇尚奋斗人生的思想。
一种怠惰安逸的生活，一种仅仅是由于缺少追寻伟大事物的愿望或能力而导致的悠闲，这对国家与个人都是没有价值的。
我们不欣赏那种怯懦安逸的人。我们钦佩那种表现出奋力向上的人，那种永不冤枉邻人，能随时帮助朋友，但是也具有那些刚健的性质，足以在实际生活的严酷斗争中赢得胜利的人。失败是艰难的，但是从不曾努力去争取成功，却更为糟糕。在人的一生中，任何的收获都要通过努力去得到。目前不用作任何努力，只是意味着在过去有过努力的积储。一个人不必工作，除非他或他的祖先曾经努力工作过，并取得了丰厚的收获。如果他能把换取到的此类的自由加以正确地运用，仍然做些实际的工作，尽管那些工作是属于另一类的，不论是做一名作家还是将军，不论是在政界还是在探险和冒险方面做些事情，都表明了他没有辜负自己的好运。
但是，如果他将这段不需从事实际工作的自由时期，不用于准备，而仅仅是用于享乐(尽管他所从事的或许并非邪恶的享乐)，那就表明了他只是地球表面上的一个赘疣；而且他肯定无法在同僚之中维持自己的地位，如果那种需要再度出现的话。安逸的生活终究不是一种令人很满意的生活，而且，最主要的是，过那种生活的人最终肯定没有能力担当起世上之重任。
于个人如此，对国家也是这样。有人说，一个没有历史的国家是得天独厚的，这是卑鄙的谎言。一种得天独厚的优越感来源于一个国家具有光荣的历史。冒险去从事伟大的事业，赢得光荣的胜利，即使其中掺杂着失败，那也远胜于与那些既没有享受多大快乐也没有遭受多大痛苦的平庸之辈为伍(因为他们生活在一个既享受不到胜利也遭遇不到失败的灰暗境界里)。
The Strenuous Life
Theodore Roosevelt
A life of slothful ease, a life of that peace which springs merely from lack either of desire or of power to strive after great things, is as little worthy of a nation as an individual.
We do not admire the man of timid peace. We admire the man who embodies victorious efforts, the man who never wrongs his neighbor, who is prompt to help a friend, but who has those virile qualities necessary to win in the stern strife of actual life. It is hard to fail, but it is worse never to have tried to succeed. In this life we get nothing save by effort. Freedom from effort in the present merely means that there has been effort stored up in the past. A man can be free from the necessity of work only by the fact that he or his fathers before him have worked to good purpose. If the freedom thus purchased is used aright, and the man still does actual work, though of a different kind, whether as a writer or a general, whether in the field of politics or in the field of exploration and adventure, he shows he deserves his good fortune.
But if he treats this period of freedom from the need of actual labor as a period, not of preparation, but of mere enjoyment, even though perhaps not of vicious enjoyment, he shows that he is simply a cumberer on the earth’s surface; and he surely unfits himself to hold his own place with his fellows, if the need to do so should again arise. A mere life of ease is not in the end a very satisfactory life, and, above all, it is a life which ultimately unfits those who follow it for serious work in the world.
As it is with the individual, so it is with the nation. It is a base untruth to say that happy is the nation that has no history. Thrice happy is the nation that has a glorious history. Far better it is to dare mighty things, to win glorious triumphs, even though checkered by failure, than to take rank with those poor spirits who neither enjoy much nor suffer much, because they live in the gray twilight that knows neither victory nor defeat.
童年（1）
[俄国]列夫·托尔斯泰
■
列夫·托尔斯泰(1828—1910)，19世纪俄国伟大的作家。托尔斯泰以自传体小说《童年》《少年》一举成名。长篇小说《战争与和平》是托尔斯泰创作历程中的第一个里程碑，是一部具有史诗和编年史特色的鸿篇巨制。长篇小说《安娜·卡列尼娜》是托尔斯泰第二部里程碑式的巨著，他晚期作品中著名的长篇小说《复活》也是世界文学宝库中不朽名著之一。
快乐的，快乐的，不再回来的童年时代啊！怎能不让我珍视对你的回忆呢？这些回忆让我精神亢奋、心灵愉悦，是我无限乐趣的源泉。
有时，我会回忆起流逝的岁月。那时跑不动了，我就在茶桌旁那把高背安乐椅上安逸地坐下来；夜深了，我就喝光所有的牛奶，迷迷糊糊地合上眼睛，静坐在那儿聆听着妈妈在同什么人说话，她的声音是那么婉转优美！那声音不停地在我的心灵深处荡漾，让我想起那段美妙的时光。我用迷糊的睡眼渴望地看着妈妈的脸。忽然，妈妈的身影逐渐变小，她的面孔缩小成了一个小黑点；可是，我依然可以看到她，她笑眯眯地瞥了我一眼。不知什么缘故，我喜欢看见妈妈变得这么小的样子。我眨了眨双眼，她的样子变得和瞳人里的小孩儿一样大了。后来我被惊醒了，画面也不见了。我眨眨眼睛，举目四望，努力想使梦中的景象再现，却一点也想不起来了。我本想站起来，却又马上惬意地靠在安乐椅上。
“你又睡着了，尼古拉斯，”妈妈对我说，“你还是上楼去睡比较好。”
“我不想睡，妈妈，”我蒙蒙眬眬地叨念，我心里装的都是那些迷幻而幸福的梦想。还是小孩的我抵挡不住那浓浓的睡意，眼皮慢慢合了起来，刹那间就来到了沉沉的梦乡，直到最终被人唤醒。蒙眬间，我觉得有人用手在轻轻地抚摩我，这种触摸的感觉告诉我，是妈妈的手。睡梦中的我情不自禁地拉住那只手，把它牢牢地按在嘴唇上。所有的人都已经离开，客厅里只剩下一根燃烧的蜡烛。妈妈说，她要自己叫醒我。妈妈坐在我睡的那张椅子扶手上，用她那温暖的手抚摩着我的头发，用我熟悉的、暖人的声音在我耳边说：“起来吧，我的乖宝贝，该去睡觉了。”
她不会因为任何人嫉妒的眼光而有丝毫犹疑：她根本不顾虑把她的全部温柔和慈爱赋予我。我合着眼，只是一次又一次地亲她的手。
“起来吧，我的天使！”
她的另外一只手搂住我的脖子。手指滑过我的脖子，让我觉得很痒。房间里没有一点声音，光线忽明忽暗，但这痒痒的感觉让我精神振奋，睡意全无。此刻,妈妈就坐在我的身边——这我感觉得到——充满爱意地抚摩着我；我听到她的声音，真实地感觉到了她的气息。我赶紧跳了起来，双手抱住妈妈的脖颈，把头钻进她的怀里，叹息了一声说道：“噢，亲爱的，亲爱的妈妈，我多么爱你呀！”
妈妈露出忧郁而迷人的微笑，然后用双手托住我的头，亲亲我的前额，最后将我抱起来，让我坐在她的腿上。“这么说你十分爱我？”她停了片刻，随后说，“记住，你一定要永远爱我，永远不要忘了我。如果妈妈不在人世了，你不会忘掉她吧？尼古拉斯，你不会忘记吧？”她更加轻柔地亲我。“不，不要这么说，我亲爱的妈妈，我最亲爱的妈妈!”我喊了起来，使劲抱住她的双腿，爱和狂喜的泪水止不住地往下流。
所有的事情都过去后，我回到楼上，虔诚地站在圣像前祷告：“主啊，求你祝福我的爸爸和妈妈。”这一刻我的心情是多么美好啊！幼稚的我重复着为亲爱的妈妈的祈祷——我对她的爱和对上帝的爱神奇地融合在了一起。
说完祈祷词后我爬进被窝，心情是又轻快，又平和，又快乐。美梦接二连三，我梦见了什么呢？它们大都不合逻辑，然而，纯洁的爱和对幸福的向往却充溢在我的梦里。随后，我就把我宠爱的瓷玩具——一只小狗或者一只小兔——放到枕头后面的床角，看着它们如此安逸温暖地躺在那里，我就感到心满意足了。接着，我又祈祷，恳求上帝赐给大家幸福，让人们都心想事成，还恳求上帝让明天有个好天气，那样我们才能去散步；后来我翻了一下身，思绪和梦境交织混杂在一起；最后，我舒服地进入了梦乡，脸上还留着湿漉漉的泪水。
人与自然
[美国]汉密尔顿·怀特·马堡
■
汉密尔顿·怀特·马堡（1846—1916），美国著名批评家、散文家。人与自然的关系是人们永远关注的主题，马堡也不例外，他在本篇中对人与自然关系的阐述，让我们获益匪浅。
从地球上出现人类起，人与自然之间的亲密关系也随之展开，而且不断地被发扬光大，这种关系每一世纪都比以前变得更为明智而深远。因此，我们求助于自然，并把自然视为人类最年长和最有影响力的老师。从某一个观点来看，自然曾一度是我们的监工，现在却变为我们的奴仆。但从另一个观点来看，自然一直是我们最忠实的朋友、教导者和启发者。这种和谐紧密的关系，如果仅仅是少数人的特权，而大多数人并不能享有，那便会在人们心目中激发一种神秘和情趣。但是事实上，这种亲密关系是被天下所有的人共享的，这就使那和谐紧密的关系失去了神秘和情趣。对于少数人来说，这种关系在每个时代都充满了奇妙和美好；对于多数人来说，这种关系只是理所当然的一件事。天空照耀着每一个人，但是只有在少数人的心目中具有一种变化多端的壮丽，他们在每一个午夜的天空都能看出一种蕴涵着创造性能力的庄严肃穆之美，不论那种景象重复多少次，都不会使那种美模糊不清。如果星辰每一千年才照耀一次大地，人们将怀着敬畏尊崇的心情凝视那种美景，而那种美景如果夜夜都在全世界的上空出现，不但不会减损，反而更为增加它的奇妙。同样，基于相同的原因，我们对于夏日天空里那种由浮云聚散飘忽所形成的一日之间千变万化的纤巧秀丽或壮丽动人的景色，也都漠然置之。海洋的神秘、恐怖和韵律，有助于医疗疲惫心灵和烦躁精神；森林所具有的奥妙和慑人魂魄的魔力；在其幽深之处保有光与大气之奥秘的山峦所呈现的庄严肃穆之美；从不模仿或重复、永远以一种出人意料的新鲜美丽冲击着人类想象力的风景变幻无穷——谁能感受到这些奇异景物的全部力量，或者能从它们那里得到所赐予的健康、快乐和丰美呢？
Man and Nature
Hamilton Wright Mabie
The intimacy between man and Nature began with the birth of man on the earth, and becomes each century more intelligent and far-reaching. To Nature, therefore, we turn as to the oldest aim most influential teacher of our race; from one point of view once our task-master, now our servant; from another point of view, our constant friend, instructor and inspirer. The very intimacy of this relation robs it of a certain mystery and richness which it would have for all minds if it were the reward of the few instead of being the privilege of the many. To the few it is, in every age, full of wonder and beauty; to the many it is a matter of course. The heavens shine for all, but they have a changing splendor to those only who see in every midnight sky a majesty of creative energy and resource which no repetition of the spectacle can dim. If the stars shone but once in a thousand years, men would gaze, awe struck and worshipful, on a vision which is not less but more wonderful because it shines nightly above the whole earth. In like manner, and for the same reason, we become indifferent to that delicately beautiful or sublimely impressive sky scenery which the clouds form and reform, compose and dissipate, a thousand times on a summer day. The mystery, the terror, and the music of the sea; the secret and subduing charm of the woods, so full of healing for the spent mind or the restless spirit; the majesty of the hills, holding in their recesses the secrets of light and atmosphere; the infinite variety of landscape, never imitative or repetitious, but always appealing to the imagination with some fresh and unsuspected loveliness; who feels the full power of these marvelous resources for the enrichment of life, or takes from them all the health, delight, and enrichment they have to bestow?
十月的日出
[英国]理查德·D. 布雷克默
■
理查德·D. 布雷克默（1825—1900），英国维多利亚时代的小说家。早年攻读法律专业，受训做律师，但由于疾病等原因而放弃了律师职业。布雷克默一生共发表过14部长篇小说。其中，1869年所著小说《罗纳·杜恩》，成为英国历史小说名著，为他赢得了声誉，他的其他小说还包括《斯科尔的女仆》（1872年）和《夏季憩息所》（1887年）。
次日清晨，十月的太阳还没有升起，我已起身出门，穿过了原野和林地。在十月寒冷与温暖交替的天气里，日出是那样隆重。透过四射的光线，太阳从灰色的山边和蜿蜒的高地上缓缓升起。在阳光的照射下，晨雾收起了它的湿气，降落到山谷里，然后偷偷变成丝缕，拖着裙摆在草地上的岩石角落里寻找栖身之所，而小山粗壮的线条若隐若现，接二连三地出现。
森林层峦叠嶂，像唤醒的山脉的帷幔，庄重而威严，引起骚动的记忆。秋天成熟的手掌抚摩着树林，因为它们已被拥有，浸上金黄、红色和橄榄色。树林和秋对太阳的喜爱就像奉献给父亲的要多于给新郎的。
然而，森林去掉那缥缈的印象之前，突然间，那令人兴奋的阳光跃上山头和峡谷，根据它停落的景致和四周的帷幔，投射出琥珀色、蓝色、紫色，还有富贵的玫瑰红。一切都像一个驱赶恐惧和踢碎黑暗的使者，一切都插上希望的翅膀前行，它们呼喊着：“上帝在这里！”于是，生命与喜悦安心地跃出每个蜷缩的山谷。每一枝花朵、每个蓓蕾和每只鸟都为之欢欣，上帝所有凝视的目光都掺杂着温柔的慈善。
因此，也许那永恒的黎明突然出现在我们的面前，那时峭壁和沟壑、小山和峡谷都将不复存在，也没有了无边的大海。那时，荣誉不能威吓幸福，幸福也不再嫉妒荣誉。只是，一切都将发生，在神父的慈善中闪耀，因为它自己也在升起。
An October Sunrise
Richard D. Blackmore
I was up the next morning before the October sunrise, and away through the wild and the woodland. The rising of the sun was noble in the cold and warmth of it; peeping down the spread of light, he raised his shoulder heavily over the edge of gray mountain and wavering length of upland. Beneath his gaze the dew-fogs dipped and crept to the hollow places, then stole away in line and column, holding skirts and clinging subtly at the sheltering corners where rock hung over grass-land, while the brave lines of the hills came forth, one beyond other gliding.
The woods arose in folds, like drapery of awakened mountains, stately with a depth of awe, and memory of the tempests. Autumn’s mellow hand was upon them, as they owned already, touched with gold and red and olive, and their joy towards the sun was less to a bridegroom than a father.
Yet before the floating impress of the woods could clear itself, suddenly the gladsome light leaped over hill and valley, casting amber, blue, and purple, and a tint of rich red rose, according to the scene they lit on, and the curtain flung around; yet all alike dispelling fear and the cloven hoof of darkness, all on the wings of hope advancing, and proclaiming, “God is here!” Then life and joy sprang reassured from every crouching hollow; every flower and bud and bird had a fluttering sense of them, and all the flashing of God’s gaze merged into soft beneficence.
So, perhaps, shall break upon us that eternal morning, when crag and chasm shall be no more, neither hill and valley, nor great unvintaged ocean; when glory shall not scare happiness, neither happiness envy glory; but all things shall arise, and shine in the light of the Father’s countenance, because itself is risen.
郁金香（2）
看到花团锦簇的美妙画面，我真是又惊又喜。一垄一垄的花儿，密密麻麻地将我笼罩。一时间，我觉得每一片叶子都变成一方精美别致的薄纱，经纬交错，形成一幅幅千娇百媚的画卷。阳光照在薄纱不同的角落上，叶子便映出五彩斑斓的色彩。有时我觉得，这大片的郁金香，在曾经最伟大的数学家和哲学家看来，就是由众多的光学仪器把光线分散成的各种不同的颜色。
意识到大家似乎一直在嘲笑我，我这才从陶醉中清醒过来。我赞美一朵郁金香，认为它是世界上最美丽的花朵。但他们却出乎意料地告诉我，那仅仅是最普通的“愚人衣”。然后，我又去赞美另一朵，但那朵花好像也属于“愚人衣”。
赞美其他两三朵花时，我遇到了相同的情况。于是，我恳求花园的主人告诉我，哪些是最好的花。因为我对花一知半解，一直以为最美的就是最有价值的，最鲜艳的就是最美的。看到我这样，主人只是一笑了之。他看上去是位单纯老实的人，有较高的品位，头脑也很理智。除了郁金香，他可以理性地谈论世间的任何事物。
他告诉我，自己特别珍惜我们面前的那个花坛。虽然那个花坛不足20码长，宽也不足2码，但是即使有人用英国最肥沃的百亩良田来换，他也坚决不妥协。他又补充说，去年冬天，要不是他的一个愚蠢的厨娘误把一堆郁金香球茎当成了洋葱做了汤，差点要了他的命，否则，这个花坛的价钱至少是现在的两倍。他说：“厨娘做的那碗汤，花了我整整一千多英镑。”他随后又给我看了他心目中最好的郁金香。我觉得那些郁金香珍贵的原因，主要是稀有，形态也非常奇异。由此我想到，不论我们有多少财富，都没有什么可珍贵的。
我从来没有捕风捉影的嗜好，不会因为某样东西不同寻常、很稀有，便用不同的眼光看待它。我认为这是一件值得高兴的事。因此，我把春日的乡野看做是一座花园，时常去看看雏菊，看看紫罗兰，就像花匠照看自己的花坛一样。周围绽放的每一朵花儿，都是那么熟悉，我不会错过一朵水仙、一簇迎春，即使它们的凋谢我也都知道。带着这种心情，我穿过几处农田，几片草地，向家走去。我想，这是神的赏赐，他把那些最令人高兴的、最美丽的事物变得那么平凡，那么简单。
■
乡间万物孕育着乐趣，谷物、干草、黄牛、牛乳，每一处农家美景，每一处乡间乐章都是那么清新自然。像我们这些长久禁锢于躁动的市井之人，应在某个夏日的清晨，步出城墙，步出林立的房屋，步出水天污浊，走入一幅幅由欢乐的花儿组成的绝美景致中，吐纳于宜人的田间村舍，定会收获一份无以言表的满足与快乐！
Tulips
Joseph Addison
I chanced to rise very early one particular morning this summer, and took a walk into the country to divert myself among the fields and meadows, while the green was new, and the flowers in their bloom. As at this season of the year every lane is a beautiful walk, and every hedge full of nosegays, I lost myself, with a great deal of pleasure, among several thickets and bushes that were filled with a great variety of birds, and an agreeable confusion of notes, which formed the pleasantest scene in the word to one who had passed a whole winter in noise and smoke. The freshness of the dews that lay upon everything about me, with the cool breath of the morning, which inspired the birds with so many delightful instincts, created in me the same kind of animal pleasure, and made my heart overflow with such secret emotions of joy and satisfaction as are not to be described or accounted for. On this occasion I could not but reflect upon a beautiful simile in Milton:
童年（2）
只有童年时代才会有朝气蓬勃、心无杂念的心情，对爱的向往和对信仰的坚定，在我们以后的人生岁月里真的还能得到吗？当天真的喜悦和对爱的无限渴求——这两种崇高的美德——成为生命中仅有的愿望，在我们的生命中，还会有比这更美妙的事物吗？那些衷心的祈祷现在在哪里？最珍贵的礼物——由情感激发的纯洁泪水——现在又在哪里呢？守护天使曾降临在我们周围，微笑着拭去那些眼泪，指引我们进入那充满无法形容的童真乐趣的甜蜜梦境。难道生活在我们的心头划过的伤痕，已经让那些泪水和欢乐永远远离我们了吗？难道剩下的只是对昔日的留恋了吗？
Childhood
Leo Tolstoy
Happy, happy, never-returning time of childhood! How can we help loving and dwelling upon its recollections1? They cheer and elevate the soul, and become to one a source of higher joys.
Sometimes, when dreaming of bygone2 days, fancy that, tired out with running about, I have sat down in my high arm-chair by the tea-table. It is late, and I have long since drunk my cup of milk. My eyes are heavy with sleep as I sit there and listen. How could I not listen, seeing that Mamma is speaking to somebody, and that the sound of her voice is so melodious and kind? How much its echoes recall to my heart! With my eyes veiled with drowsiness I gaze at her wistfully. Suddenly she seems to grow smaller and smaller, and her face vanishes to a point; yet I can still see it—can still see her as she looks at me and smiles. Somehow it pleases me to see her grown so small. I blink and blink, yet she looks no larger than a boy reflected in the pupil of an eye. Then I rouse myself, and the picture fades. Once more I half-close my eyes, and cast about to try and recall the dream, but it has gone, I rise to my feet, only to fall back comfortably into the armchair.
“There! You are falling asleep again, little Nicolas,” says Mamma. “You had better go to by-by.”
“No, I won’t go to sleep, Mamma,” I reply, though almost inaudibly, for pleasant dreams are filling all my soul. The sound sleep of childhood is weighing my eyelids down, and for a few moments. I sink into slumber and oblivion until awakened by some one. I feel in my sleep as though a soft hand were caressing me. I know it by the touch, and, though still dreaming, I seize hold of it and press it to my lips. Every one else has gone to bed, and only one candle remains burning in the drawing-room. Mamma has said that she herself will wake me. She sits down on the arm of the chair in which I am asleep, with her soft hand stroking my hair, and I hear her beloved, well-known voice say in my ear: “Get up, my darling. It is time to go by-by.”
No envious gaze sees her now. She is not afraid to shed upon me the whole of her tenderness and love. I do not wake up, yet I kiss and kiss her hand.
“Get up, then, my angel.”
She passes her other arm round my neck, and her fingers tickle me as they move across it. The room is quiet and in half-darkness, but the tickling has touched my nerves and I begin to awake. Mamma is sitting near me—that I can tell—and touching me; I can hear her voice and feel her presence. This at last rouses me to spring up, to throw my arms around her neck, to hide my head in her bosom, and to say with a sigh:
十月之湖（1）
[英国]赫伯特·欧内斯特·贝慈
■
赫伯特·欧内斯特·贝慈（1905—1974），英国著名小说家。最初做村书记员，对农村生活比较了解，后来为当地报社撰稿。早期关于农村题材的小说给他带来了较高的声誉，这些小说包括《偷猎者》（1935年），《女人们的房子》（1936年）和短篇小说集《死者的美》（1941年）。二战期间，他参加了皇家空军,进行战前报道。战后他又发表了《爱情的本质》（1954）、《瞬间》（1964年）等等。
十月的枯叶飘落在湖上。在明朗而又平静的日子里，成千上万片的树叶散落在此时色泽渐暗的湖面。白杨的大部分黄色小舰队，在没有风的空中，不断从高大的树梢上自己掉落，稀稀落落的，似乎有落水的声音。不过在雨中，或是雨后，这些小船就游走，或者是被吹走了。于是，除了残留的莲叶依然遮住湖面，湖上就再没有侵犯物了。盛夏时节，那些像一个个翡翠玉盘而覆盖了整个湖面的莲叶，如今也枯萎了；而那犹如正在游动的小蛇的黄色小花蕾，此刻也已不复存在。芦苇也枯了，被寒风和严霜编织成凌乱的篓状小洲。湖上的骨顶鸡和黑水鸡听到陌生人的响动，便溜进这“小洲”底下躲起来。
在睡莲的世界里，骨顶鸡和黑水鸡整个夏天都过着迷茫的生活。它们没有戏水的地方，只能整天在这莲叶的世界里，时而轻轻侧头，时而微微低头，慢慢地滑过莲叶覆盖的湖面。这叶的世界带给它们同冰雪的严冬一样的茫然。在秋季湖面比较干净的日子，骨丁鸡和黑水鸡便活跃得多了。长长的湖面，除两处小岛外，大体都连成一片。鸟儿们突发兴致般发狂地在湖面上时上时下，像小小的黑色水上飞机，时升时降。除了这些鸟儿之外，野鸭也会以相当高的速度飞来，甚是壮观。雄鸭脖颈处的羽毛闪耀着如昂贵的深绿缎面般的光泽，犹如经过了长途远行的空军中队，初次降落在这里。
要等到夏末才可以钓鱼。湖水经过干旱之后，水面变得清且浅。你会看到成群的黑鱼浮到水面上来晒太阳。它们怕羞易惊，要捕捉到是很难的。只有在傍晚的时候，随着天气变凉，湖水也变暗了，湖面也会被游上来的鱼群的银色舞蹈划破，这时，你才可能钓到一两条初生的鲈鱼，或比沙丁鱼还小的鳊鱼。整个夏季，尤其是晴热的早晨，10到20条大梭子鱼的鱼群会在湖中心游来游去，像黑色的电鳐，呆呆地浮在水面，只是偶尔突然的一个挺身，使水面漾起道道涟漪。
尽管很令人奇怪，但是似乎水中和水上的生命都与水密切相关。除了一只孤独的鹪鹩在岸边的赤杨树下心不在焉地站立着，还有在十月的午后哼唱着从岛上飞过湖面的知更鸟，所有的鸟类都属于水鸟。白嘴鸦似乎从来也没有来过，八哥也是。偶尔有一只鸽子拍打着翅膀掠过湖面，飞到林间去了。就连海鸥也成了陆地上的禽类。但是春天，野天鹅会回到淡黄色的芦苇丛中安家，并且有两只高大的苍鹭，每天在河边的草地上踱着步子，听到响声必奋力地、笨重地昂起头来。鹬鸟在沼泽地的棕色草丛上空盘旋；有时，一只翠鸟也魔幻般地飞过赤杨树下的阴暗树篱，树篱就横跨在最窄的水面处。但是有时，这里也会在好长的一段时间里寂静无声。最后一只鱼打破湖面的平静之后，湖水渐渐寂静下来。黑水鸡沉默了，树叶也在十月的空气中停止了摇动与飘落。深红色的浮萍静止在平静的水面。
在这样清新的日子里，湖上的色彩依旧很美。南岸的白杨、赤杨树、栲树和七叶树在湖中投下如柠檬黄和青铜色水帘般的倒影。樱桃园、梨子园火红一片，几乎光秃的秋柳是挡不住那橙黄的火焰的。橡树依然是郁郁葱葱，但是远处的山毛榉却像红色的山峰一样挺立着。湖面本身就有意想不到的绚丽色彩：长满温柏的岛屿依旧是苍绿的，但树的枝头挂满了没人采摘的成熟果实，它们就如盏盏灯笼一样悬挂着。
河谷寻幽（1）
[英国]威廉·科贝特
■
威廉·科贝特（1763—1835），英国散文家、记者。他出身于农民家庭，后来办报评论时政，是改革派的忠实支持者，但同时又眷恋中世纪的英国社会，思想颇有些矛盾复杂，因此被马克思称为“大英帝国最保守和最激进的人——英国最纯粹的体现者和最英勇的青年创始人”。其代表作有《骑马旅行记》，这一作品记录了他游览英国乡村时的所见所闻。他的作品思想犀利，文笔朴实无华，在19世纪初，浪漫主义美文风靡之时，重新带给人们18世纪笛福的朴实文风。
我大清早就出了门，在马尔博罗公路上走了两三英里，然后拐向西北，翻过一处高地去寻找阿文河的源头。阿文河流向索尔兹伯里。我曾经在河谷中一个称为下阿文的村庄里住过一些日子，然而不止一次听说，这条河算得上是整个英国众多胜地中最好的一处。那谷地不过30英里长、一英里宽，可上面竟然耸立着大约30座教区教堂。我决定去探究一番，究竟是什么原因促使我们的先人们建造了这么多的教堂，更何况直到最近几年以前英格兰的人口还非常少——苏格兰人一直力求让我们相信这一点。
沿着高地走，我来到一座巨大的庄园附近，一位牧人告诉我这是弥尔顿山庄。庄园建在高地上，距离阿文河还有一段路程。这个河谷就是我“想抵达的地方”，或者至少是一个令人期待的地方。因为我实在是难以想象为什么人们会无缘无故地把这30座教堂建在这么一条30英里长的小河旁（而这条小河的大部分并没有什么特色鲜明的地方）。牧人把通向弥尔顿村的道路指给了我。差不多走了一英里，我来到直达谷地的一个陡峭坡上。终于第一次见到了阿文河谷——多么美丽的河谷呀！这里有村落、庄园、塔楼、田野、草地、果园，还有郁郁葱葱的树木。这里的地形是这样的：河谷的周围都是高地，有些地方陡峭险峻，向前绵延数英里；有的地方坡度比较平缓。在河谷和高地交会的地方，是一大片肥沃的田地，有的甚至顺着高地向上爬了一二英里远。玉米地紧紧地挨着两边的草地，向下一直延伸到水边。在靠近草地的田间里，坐落着大部分的农屋、农院和村屯。
尽管对这里的田园风光我原本就抱有很高的期望，却没有想到眼前的景色比我所想象的更美妙。以前我曾在汗普郡的伊饮、伯恩，以及特斯特等一些地方见过溪谷，包括南高地的溪谷，可是没有一处像阿文河这样让我心动。我骑在马上，仰头眺望弥尔顿、伊斯和佩塞，足足有半个小时，居然忘记了自己还没有吃早餐。我所站的这个山丘地势险峻，一条小径从旁边斜出而下，狭窄而陡峭，再加上雨水长年累月地冲洗，深凹难走。我既没有胆量骑马下山，也不想牵着马下山。就在这个时候，我看见一个小男孩正赶着猪群向茬子地走去，于是我招手把他叫过来，让他帮我把马牵下去。在继续我的山谷寻幽之前，还是好好介绍一下我给阿文河谷画的一张草图或者称之为地图吧。我是这样画的：我从朋友那里借来一张威尔特郡的旧地图，在上面盖上一层薄纸，描出河流，用数字代表教堂，用星号代表庄园和房宅的旧址。把这个河谷包围起来的高地可真是姿态各异。有时山坡比较平缓，田地顺畅地向远方延伸；有时高地陡然陷入河谷，好像是探入海中的码头长堤，四面都是峭壁：实际上并没有任何背面，而是与整个高地连接在一起。另外，河谷的宽度和草地的宽度也都有很大的变化。但是无论怎样看，这里的土地都称得上是上等的良田。这是毋庸置疑的，因为当地的农民也是这样说的。
如今，流传着一些莫名其妙的古怪言论：人口的增长速度总是比所需要的食物的增长速度快，基于此理论要求英格兰向外移民。这些理论不过是那些狂妄而又不学无术、无聊卑鄙的人从妖怪马尔萨斯那里摘文引句而来的，是那些暴君的统治和某些奴颜媚骨者鼓吹的托词罢了。如果要彻底揭露这些家伙的愚昧蠢笨、稀里糊涂、言行武断和让人难以忍受的浅薄无知、蛮横骄纵，还有疯疯癫癫以及对神灵的亵渎，最有效的一种方法也许就是赶上收获时节来这个地方看看——看看这年的收成、人丁状况和种种变化。上帝对这个地方真是倾囊恩赐了。
这里是纽约（2）
我提到这些的初衷仅仅是想让大家明白纽约是一个特别的地方，它差不多容纳并摄取了所有外来的事物(无论是从东部驶来的长达1000英尺的巨轮，还是来自西部的两万人大集会)，却不会给它的居民带来负担。从某种意义上说，这里所发生的每一件事都是可选择的，居民们可以快乐地选择自己的景象，同时又保持自己灵魂的完整。在茫茫世界之中，城市不论大小，选择之权通常根本不在个人手中。个人只能任凭权贵人物的调遣。那些大人物可以兴风作浪；事件的发生不可避免。要是门楣掉下来，它会砸在每一个公民的头上，砸在每一个住在城内的人头上。有时我想，每个纽约人都逃不过的一件事，无非是一年一度的圣帕特里克节大游行。那可真是全城动员的一大盛事。纽约城内有50万爱尔兰人，要知道想让他们走上街头是相当困难的一件事。
纽约城把它的居民和日常事件分离开来的特点，或许对他们只有伤害。想象一下，如果他们生活在其他地方，当门楣倒下来时，你就会听到声音；有州长路过时，不管怎么样都可看到他的帽子，那他们将更加健康快乐。
我倒不是在这一点上为纽约辩护。很大一部分人来这里或许只是为了躲避现实，而不是直面现实。但无论怎么说，纽约所赋予人们的是一种罕见的礼物。我相信这种东西会积极地促进纽约人的创造力——之所以称为创造，从某种角度上来说，只不过是把大大小小让人分心的事扔在一边。
虽然纽约常给人一种被遗弃的感觉，但它很少饱经沧桑或面如死灰。你仅仅需要把家挪动10个街区或花掉5美元，就会有一种恢复活力的感觉。许多情绪低落、精神恍惚的人都把这个城市的巨大活力当成自己的精神支柱和发展动力。在这个国家，只有天气的变化，或者邮箱里新到的信件，会让人精神为之一振，其他的事物都引不起人们的兴趣。但纽约却魅力四射。我认为，虽然很多人到这儿来是由于精力旺盛(这使他们与家乡的小镇截然不同)，可还有一些人是因为精神贫乏才来的，他们在纽约找到了一种保护，一种精神上的替代。
我认为纽约可以分为三种类型。第一个纽约是那些土生土长的人们眼里的纽约。这些人认可并自然地正视纽约的所有事物，包括它的辽阔和吵闹。第二个纽约是手拿月票、反复奔波的上班族眼里的纽约。这些人把纽约看成是一台日出工作、日落休息的机器。第三个纽约是那些来此怀揣梦想的异乡客眼里的纽约。在上述三个鲜明的城市形象中，最后一个最伟大，因为它拥有一个目标，堪称终极之城。恰恰是这第三种形象，酝酿了纽约缤纷绚烂的气质、高贵的风度、艺术的璀璨及其独一无二的成就。匆忙的上班族使这个城市高速发展，本地的人们在这里哺育后代，但那些外来的异乡客却给予它激情。无论是为了逃离左邻右舍的侮辱而到密西西比河畔耕种建村的意大利农民，还是箱底放着一份手稿、胸中却暗藏痛苦的来自玉米地带的男孩，这都没有什么区别，他们每一个人都以冒险家新鲜的目光关注纽约，所发出的光和热甚至使联合爱迪生公司都相形见绌。
匆忙的上班族是最独特的一个群体。他们所居住的郊区根本谈不上有活力，不过是下班后回来休息的地方。一个住在马莫内克或小内克或提内克的人，却在纽约上班。在他眼中，他熟悉的只有火车和公共汽车的出发、到达时间和吃便餐途经的那条小路；而对于这个城市的其他事物，他差不多是一概不知。他整日埋头工作，几乎没有一次在夕阳下漫游，偶尔站在公园的瞭望塔旁，看防御用的堡垒在池塘边高高耸立，注视男孩们在岸边钓鱼，看女孩们在岩石旁随心所欲地躺着。他与悠闲一派根本沾不上边，在这座城市，一次也没有注意到真正的惊喜，因为他心中只有工作。他在曼哈顿金钱遍地的河里垂钓过，收获过钱币，却一次也没有聆听过它的呼吸，没有在它的清晨醒来、在它的夜晚睡下。每个工作日的早晨，大概有40万男男女女，从地铁和隧道里挤出来，来到这片岛屿。他们中很少有人曾在公共图书馆安静的阅览室里，享受过一个悠闲的下午。图书馆运书的电梯(如同一部水车)不断地上上下下，把书运送到流动架上。他们在包厘街上帮人看管火炉，炉膛里的火苗在温度只有零度的冬夜里噼里啪啦地响。他们也可能在金融区中心工作，却从未见过洛克菲勒中心富丽堂皇的花卉树木。在那儿，一到风景优美的春天清晨，黄水仙、麝香兰属植物和白桦树都整理得整整齐齐的，还有各色旗帜迎风飘扬。他们也可能在市中心的办公室里工作，一年又一年，却从未见过防波堤外面的总督岛。这样的上班族只要离开人世，人生的日程表上会留有一串长长的印记，可他却不是一个流浪者。即便和那些饲养草原犬鼠的村民们相比，他的登场和谢幕离开要多几分曲折。他最终埋葬在东河河底的污泥里，变成一朵浪花静静地拍打着大桥。仅仅长岛铁路一家公司去年就运送了四千万这样的上班族，但其中很多是反复往来的人。
童年（3）
“Ah, dear, darling Mamma, how much I love you!”
She smiles her sad, enchanting3 smile, takes my head between her two hands, kisses me on the forehead, and lifts me on to her lap.
“Do you love me so much, then?” she says. Then, after a few moments’ silence, she continues: “And you must love me always, and never forget me. If your Mamma should no longer be here, will you promise never to forget her—never, Nicolinka?” and she kisses me more fondly than ever.
“Oh, but you must not speak so, darling Mamma, my own darling Mamma!” I exclaim as I clasp her knees, and tears of joy and love fall from my eyes.
How, after scenes like this! I would go upstairs, and stand before the icons, and say with a rapturous feeling, “God bless Papa and Mamma!” and repeat a prayer for my beloved mother which my childish lips had learnt to lisp—the love of God and other blending strangely in a single emotion!
After saying my prayers I would wrap myself up in the bedclothes. My heart would feel light, peaceful, and happy, and one dream would follow another. Dreams of what? They were all of them vague, but all of them full of pure love and of a sort of expectation of happiness. Usually, also, there would be some favorite toy—a china dog or the bedarner into the bed-corner behind the pillow, and it would please me to think how warm and comfortable and well cared—for it was there. Also, I would pray God to make everyone happy, so that every one might be contented, and also to send fine weather tomorrow for our walk. Then I would turn myself over on to the other side, and thoughts and dreams would become jumbled and entangled together until at last I slept soundly and peacefully, though with a face wet with tears.
Do in after life the freshness and light-heartedness, the craving4 for love and for strength of faith, ever return which we experience in our childhood’s years? What better time is there in our lives than when the two best of virtues—innocent gaiety and a boundless yearning for affection—are our sole objects of pursuit?
Where now are our ardent prayers? Where now are our best gifts—the pure tears of emotion which a guardian angel dries with a smile as he sheds upon us lovely dreams of ineffable5 childish joy? Can it be that life has left such heavy traces upon one’s heart that those tears and ecstasies are for ever vanished? Can it be that there remains to us only the recollection of them?
十月之湖（2）
■
明朗而又平静的日子里，让我们带上一份平静的心态，看落叶纷纷，看潮涨潮落，倾听鸟儿的鸣叫……你会发现，原来世界这般美好！
October Lake
Herbert Ernest Bates
The October leaves have fallen on the lake. On bright, calm days they lie in thousands on the now darkening water, mostly yellow flotillas of poplar, floating continuously down from great trees that themselves shake in the windless air with the sound of falling water, but on rainy days or after rain they seem to swim or be driven away, and nothing remains to break the surface except the last of the olive-yellow lily pads that in high summer covered every inch of water like plates of emerald porcelain. The lilies have gone too, the yellow small-headed kind that in bud are like swimming snakes, and the great reeds are going, woven by wind and frost into untidy basket islands under which coot and moorhen skid for cover at the sound of strangers.
All summer, in this world of water-lilies, the coot and moorhen lived a bewildered life. There was no place where they could swim, and all day they could be seen walking daintily, heads slightly aside and slightly down, cross the lily-hidden water, as bemused by the world of leaves as they had been in winter by the world of ice. In unbroken expect for two small islands. This birds, as the fit takes them, dash madly up and down it, taking off and touching down like small fussy black sea-planes. Beside them the arrival of the wild duck, at much higher speed, is almost majestic. They plane down, the necks of the drakes shining like royal green satin, with the air of squadrons coming in after long flights from home.
It was not until late summer fishing was possible. The water was so low and clear after drought that the fish could be seen in great dark shoals, sunning themselves, shy, impossible to catch. Only in the evenings, as the air cooled and the water darkened, and the surface was broken with the silver dances of the rising shoals, would you perhaps get a bite or two, a baby perch sucking at the worm, a roach no bigger than a sardine. All the time, on bright hot mornings especially, great pike would lie out in the middle of the lake in shoals of ten or even twenty, like black torpedoes, transfixed, never moving except in sudden immense rises that rocked the water-surface with rings.
It is curious, but all the life on and about water seems to belong to water. Except for a solitary wren fidgeting delicately about the banks under the alder trees, or a robin singing in the October afternoon across the water from the islands, all the bird-life is that of water- birds. Rooks never seem to come here, nor starlings; an occasional pigeon flaps across to the woods; even the sea-gulls belong to the ploughed land. But wild swans come back to nest in the piles of fawn-colored reeds in the spring, and two great herons stalk the water-meadows every day, struggling ponderously upwards at the sound of voices. Snipe whirl away across the tussocks of brown-quelled sedge on the adjacent marshland, and a solitary kingfisher breaks with magic electric streaks the dark enclosures under the alders that span the narrowest water. But something, and for long periods, there is no life and no sound at all. The water is slowly stilled after the last fish have broken it, the coot are silent, the leaves cease their shaking and falling in the dead October air. The crimson float comes to rest on water that seems to have on it a skin of oil.
On such still clear days the color is wonderful. From the south bank of the water poplar and alder and ash and horse-chestnut let fall high liquid curtains of lemon and bronze. Orchards of cherry and pear shoulder with drooping orange flames beyond the light wall of almost naked willows. The oaks are still green, but the beeches in the distances stand like red mountains. And on the lake itself unexpected color springs up: an island of quince trees, still green, but hung with many ripe lanterns of bright fruit that no one gathers.
河谷寻幽（2）
从山顶之巅举目远望，我惊讶地发现在河谷中，有大量的瑞典芜菁在大部分的田地里生长。从盐山到纽伯里，这一路上我都看见很多长势良好的英国和瑞典芜菁；但自纽伯里到伯克莱、海克莱、厄赫斯本与唐格里一带，却很少见到这些东西，而到了卢德加什和埃弗里周围地区，几乎见不到芜菁的踪迹。可是我早上到达弥尔顿山庄时，却见到了一大片郁郁葱葱的瑞典芜菁。然而河谷中的芜菁长得更好，田野的色彩也变得艳丽多了，真是美不胜收。这景象正好与今年收拾得格外干净的休耕地和茬子地形成了鲜明的对比。
走到山脚下，我决定去弥尔顿村，在我的地图上，这个村里教堂的代号是（3）。我把伊斯顿（2）甩在了右后方，也没有去寻找阿文河的源头沃顿河（1），这条河与马尔博罗森林的西南角为邻，离马尔博罗镇只有五六英里远的距离。我记得有个大农场主朋友就住在阿文河的下游，于是决定前去拜访。平时我出门总是喜欢先问路，于是便向这个小猪倌打探我那个朋友的住所，让人惊喜的是朋友就住在弥尔顿教区里。我策马来到村子中心的教堂，紧接着就直奔向朋友家,他的房子就盖在通向河谷的路边上。我曾经见过许多惊喜交织的场面，然而在我一生的记忆之中，从来没有哪一次像农场主及其家人见到我时的惊喜样子。人们见面时通常都说“很高兴见到你”；一般来说，这句话是出于真心的。我一向很谨慎，除非有十足的把握能够受到热诚的欢迎，否则决不会轻易登门造访，以免有一点打扰的嫌疑。但是，对于我的光临，住在费非尔德（弥尔顿教区内）的朋友及其家人表露出的惊喜，确实是用言语所表达不了的。
■
《河谷寻幽》是一篇意境优美的散文，文章清晰地刻画了作者在河谷的所见所感。文章开篇介绍前往河谷的道路，如梦如幻，仿佛跟随作者一起领略了河谷的风采。随后对河谷进行了生动的描述，它犹如一幅幅栩栩如生、苍翠欲滴的风景画。所有的景致构成了一个和谐的整体，毫无散漫之感，同时也深化了文章的主题：在河谷里，寻找一份悠然的心境。
Down the Valley
William Cobbett
I came off this morning on the Marlborough road about two miles, or three, and then turned off, over the downs, in a northwesterly direction, in search of the source of the Avon river, which goes down to Salisbury. I had once been at Netheravon, a village in this valley, but I had often heard this valley described as one of the finest pieces of land in all England; I knew that there were about thirty parish churches, standing in a length of about thirty miles, and in an average width of hardly a mile; and I was resolved to see a little into the reasons that could have induced our fathers to build all these churches, especially if, as the Scotch would have us believe, there were but a mere handful of people in England until of late years.
In steering across the down, I came to a large farm, which a shepherd told me was Milton Hill Farm. This was upon the high land, and before I came to the edge of this Valley of Avon, which was my land of promise, or at least, of great expectation; for I could not imagine that thirty churches had been built for nothing by the side of a brook (for it is no more during the greater part of the way) thirty miles long. The shepherd showed me the way towards Milton; and at the end of about a mile, from the top of a very high part of the down, with a steep slope towards the valley, I first saw this Valley of Avon; and a most beautiful sight it was! Villages, hamlets, large farms, towers, steeples, fields, meadows, orchards, and very fine timber trees, scattered all over the valley. The shape of the thing is this: on each side downs, very lofty and steep in some places, and sloping miles back in other places; but each outside of the valley are downs. From the edge of the downs begin capital arable fields generally of very great dimensions, and, in some places, running a mile or two back into little crossvalleys, formed by hills of downs. After the cornfields come meadows on each side, down to the brook or river. The farmhouses, mansions, villages, and hamlets are generally situated in that part of the arable land which comes nearest the meadows.
玫瑰（1）
[美国]洛根·皮尔索尔·史密斯
■
洛根·皮尔索尔·史密斯（1865—1946），生于美国费城，但大半生在英国度过，主要致力于英国语言的研究。主要作品有《亨利·沃顿爵士传记》《读莎士比亚》《弥尔顿和他的现代评论家》《难忘的年代》等。本文是一篇围绕玫瑰展开的一个触动人心的爱情故事。
这位老太太总以她花园中那棵巨大的玫瑰树为荣。她会津津有味地告诉你她头一次结婚时，从意大利带回来的一根插条，是怎么样长成参天大树的。回想当年她和丈夫乘马车从罗马旅行归来(那时还未通铁路)，途经锡耶纳南部的一段路时，道路很难走以至于马车都坏了，没有办法他们只好夜宿于路边的一间小店。住宿条件的恶劣使她彻夜无眠，很早就起身穿好衣服，站在窗前等待黎明。凉风不时从窗外袭来。事隔多年，她依然记得一轮明月挂在那蓝色的群山上，远山上的小城一点一点地变白，直到月亮渐渐落下，初升的太阳为群山抹上一层淡淡的粉色。突然，小城像是被一盏明灯照亮了，一扇扇窗户明亮地反射出耀眼的光芒，最后，小城如满天繁星般在天空中熠熠生光。
那天上午，得知必须等一段时间马车才能修好，他们便乘当地的交通车上了那个山顶小城，听说在那儿可以找到好一点的住处。之后，他们在山上逗留了两三天。那是个意大利小城，有一个高高的教堂，一个不是很繁华的市场，一些窄窄的街道，几座小小的宫殿，稠密而完美地立于山顶。被城墙围着的城区并不比英国人的菜园子大多少，但这里生机勃勃，喧闹嘈杂，昼夜回荡着脚步声和话语声。
他们居住在当地一个名流云集的小酒店里，有市长、律师、医生，还有其他一些人。其中一位英俊、高个儿而又健谈的老人引起了他们的注意。他乌黑的眼睛，雪白的头发，腰板挺直，像年轻人一样。但是酒店的侍者却自豪地告诉他们实际上这位伯爵已届高龄，明年是他的八十寿辰。侍者还说到伯爵是这个家族的最后一员，他们家曾是豪门大户，但其一生无子嗣。但事实上，这个侍者还甚是得意地说，伯爵情场失意，终生未娶，似乎这是一件本地值得炫耀的事情。
不过幸好，这位老先生看起来活得还挺开心；显然他对陌生人很感兴趣，愿意与之结交。很快这位好心的侍者促成了他们之间的认识。刚聊一会儿，老人就邀请他们参观他郊外的别墅和花园。因此，第二天下午，日落之时，当他们从门口和窗口瞥见蓝色的阴影覆盖了褐色的山峦时，就动身去造访这位老伯爵了。其实别墅比较一般，只是一座用灰泥粉饰过的现代小别墅，铺有石子的花园里有些热，石盆中的鱼儿无精打采，狄安娜和猎犬的雕像倚墙而立。然而，一棵巨大的玫瑰树为这个花园增色不少，它高过房顶，几乎盖住了窗户，散发出诱人的花香。嗯！确实是棵美丽的玫瑰树，在人们的赞美声中老先生很自豪地说，而且他很乐意为这位女士讲述玫瑰树的故事。当大家坐在那儿，喝着老人拿出的葡萄酒时，老伯爵忘却了自己已届高龄，向大家娓娓道来自己当年的爱情故事，就好像他们早已经听说过似的。
“多年以前，当我还是个年轻人时，那个小姐住在那座山背后的山谷对面。我常骑马去与她约会；虽然路很长，但年轻人性子急——这位女士无疑是知道的，所以我骑得很快。但那位小姐很不友善，总是让我等啊等，一等就是几个小时吧。一天，久候不来之后，我勃然大怒。在我们约会的那个花园里不停地踱步，借着怒火折断她的一棵玫瑰树，把上面的一根树枝折走了。清醒之后，我立马将它藏进外套。事情就是这样。回家之后我把它种到花园里，它现在的情形这位女士已经看到了。当然这位女士要是喜欢的话，我愿意送根插条让她种在她家的花园里。听说英国人的花园很漂亮，到处绿油油的，不像我们的园子都被太阳烤焦了。”
自然（1）
[美国]拉尔夫·瓦尔多·爱默生
一个想要追求孤独的人，不但要离开自己的卧室，还要离开社会。在我阅读和写作之时，尽管无人相伴，可我没有觉得孤独。然而，假如有谁用尽心思追求孤独，那就让他抬头凝望星空吧。那来自天国的光芒，能在他和他生活的天地之间分出一条界线。你也许会认为，如此的构想简直太棒了：在空旷辽阔的大地之上，人们抬头仰视星空，仿佛从中领悟到某种崇高的永恒。从城市的街道看过去，那种场面的确令人肃然起敬！假设天上的星星一千年才出现一次，可想而知它们会对这上苍的显圣是何等崇敬，又该是如何仔细地将它收藏进记忆里好流芳百世啊!只可惜，这些美的使者夜夜都会带着劝诫式的微笑降临，将光辉普照整个宇宙。
星星使我们产生的敬畏之心，不是因为它常常高悬于空中，而是因为它的可望而不可即。然而，只要拥有一颗包容的心，你就会发现世间万物和人类其实都是心灵相通的。自然从不把它吝啬的一面显露出来，顶尖聪明之人也不会强求打开它全部的奥秘，而会保留好奇之心去探寻它所有的完美之处。在智者看来，自然永远不会是一个玩物。鲜花、动物、山脉——折射出他的纯真童年——也是他最高智慧的体现。当我们以这种方式来谈论自然时，头脑中自然会产生一种清晰而又极富诗意的画面，这种画面是世间万物在我们的印象中留下的印迹的总和。也正是在这种印象的指引下，才会有伐木工手中的是木头、而诗人笔下却是大树的区别。今天早上我所看到的那一片令人陶醉的景色，毫无疑问它是由二三十个农场组成的。米勒占有这一块土地，洛克是那一片田野的主人，树林外面的那一片则归曼宁所有……可是，他们谁都不能拥有整片风景。远处有一块土地，谁也不能将其划在自己的名下，唯有那个又能看见土地又看得见风景的人，才是它真正的主人，而诗人正符合这样的要求。这个地方是农场主所有财产中最值钱的一部分，但按照他们的担保契约却并不是这样。坦率地讲，现在没有多少成年人能真正看得见自然了。大多数人都不看太阳，至少，只是肤浅地看。对成人而言，太阳只照亮了他们的眼睛，对孩子来说，太阳却照进了他们的眼睛与心灵。一个自然爱好者，他外在的知觉和内心的感触是和谐的，甚至在他成年以后，依然拥有一颗童心。在他看来，与天地的接触，是日常生活中不可分割的一部分，只要身处大自然中，不管生活中遭遇多大的悲痛，内心总会产生巨大的快乐。大自然说，他是我的杰作，不管他有多少没有原由的悲伤，他都会同我一起快乐。自然赋予我们的不仅仅是阳光、夏日、四季的变换，她每时每刻都在给予我们快乐与欣喜。这是因为，每一刻、每一个变化，不管是压抑的中午还是黑暗的午夜，都意味着一种别样的心情。在自然的舞台上，不仅能上演喜剧，也能烘托悲剧。
■
文章写作者远离人类的喧嚣，走进大自然寻找快乐的感觉以及由此而发的丰富联想。作者置身于自然的纯洁、清新、甜美之中，抛开了尘世的纷繁、虚荣、虚伪和偏见，进入理想的境界。还开创了他透视万物眼球的理论，成为美国超现实主义的代表。在艺术上作者采用内心独白的表述，语言亲切自然，感情真挚。作者引领着读者用心与自然对话，感受自然赋予人类的一切。文章情景交融，充满诗情画意，给人精神上美的享受。
Nature
Ralph Waldo Emerson
To go into solitude, a man needs to retire as much from his chamber as from society. I am not solitary whilst I read and write, though nobody is with me. But if a man would be alone, let him look at the stars. The rays that come from those heavenly worlds, will separate between him and what he touches. One might think the atmosphere was made transparent1 with this design, to give man, in the heavenly bodies, the perpetual2 presence of the sublime. Seen in the streets of cities, how great they are! If the stars should appear one night in a thousand years, how would men believe and adore; and preserve for many generations the remembrance of the city of God which had been shown! But every night come out these envoys of beauty, and light the universe with their admonishing smile.
这里是纽约（4）
New York blends the gift of privacy with the excitement of participation; and better than most dense communities it succeeds in insulating the individual (if he wants it, and almost everybody wants or needs it) against all enormous4 and violent and wonderful events that are taking place every minute. Since I have been sitting in this miasmic air shaft, a good many rather splashy events have occurred in town. A man shot and killed his wife in a fit of jealousy. It caused no stir outside his block and got only small mention in the papers. I did not attend. Since my arrival, the greatest air show ever staged in all the world took place in town. I didn’t attend and neither did most of the eight million other inhabitants, although they say there was quite a crowd. I didn’t even hear any planes except a couple of westbound commercial airliners that habitually use this air shaft to fly over. The biggest oceangoing ships on the North Atlantic arrived and departed. I didn’t notice them and neither did most other New Yorkers. I am told this is the greatest seaport in the world, with 650 miles of waterfront, and ships calling here from many exotic lands, but the only boat I’ve happened to notice since my arrival was a small sloop tacking out of the East River night before last on the ebb tie when I was walking across the Brooklyn Bridge. I heard the Queen Mary blow one midnight, though, and the sound carried the whole history of departure and longing and loss. The Lions have been in convention. I’ve seen not one Lion. A friend saw one and told me about him. (He was lame, and was wearing a bolero.) At the ballgrounds and horse parks the greatest sporting spectacles have been enacted. I saw no ballplayer, no race horse. The governor came to town. I heard the siren5 scream, but that was all there was to that—an eighteen-inch margin again. A man was killed by a falling cornice. I was not a party to the tragedy, and again the inches counted heavily.
I mention these merely to show that New York is peculiarly constructed to absorb almost anything that comes along (whether a thousand-foot liner out of the East or a twenty-thousand-man convention out of the West) without infliction the event on its inhabitants, so that every event is, in a sense, optional, and the inhabitant is in the happy position of being able to choose his spectacle and so conserve his soul. In most metropolises, small and large, the choice is often not with the individual at all. He is thrown to the Lions. The Lions are overwhelming; the event is unavoidable. A cornice falls, and it hits every citizen on the head, every last man in town. I sometimes think that the only event that hits every New Yorker on the head is the annual St. Patrick’s Day parade, which is fairly penetrating—the Irish are a hard race to tune out, and there are 500,000 of them in residence.
河谷寻幽（4）
From the top of the hill I was not a little surprised to see, in every part of the valley that my eye could reach, a due, a large, portion of fields of Swedish turnips, all looking extremely well. I had found the turnips of both sorts by no means bad from Salt Hill to Newbury; but from Newbury through Burghclere, Highclere, Uphusband, and Tangley, I had seen but few. At and about Ludgarshall and Everley I had seen hardly any. But when I came this morning to Milton Hill Farm, I saw a very large field of what appeared to me to be fine Swedish turnips. In the valley, however, I found them much finer, and the fields were very beautiful objects, forming, as their color did, so great a contrast with that of the fallows and the stubbles, which latter are, this year, singularly clean and bright.
Having gotten to the bottom of the hill, I proceeded on to the village of Milton, the church of which is, in the map, represented by the figure(3), I left Easton (2) away at my right, and I did not go up to Watton Rivers (1) where the river Avon rises, and which lies just close to the south, west corner of Marlborough Forest, and at about 5 or 6 miles from the town of Marlborough. Lower down the river, as I thought, there lived a friend, who was a great farmer, and whom I intended to call on. It being my way, however, always to begin making inquiries soon enough, I asked the pig-driver where this friend lived; and, to my surprise, I found that he lived in the parish of Milton. After tiding up to the church, as being the center of the village, I went on towards the house of my friend, which lay on my road down the valley. I have many, many times witnessed agreeable surprise; but I do not know that I ever in the whole course of my life saw people so much surprised and pleased as this farmer and his family were at seeing me. People often tell you that they are glad to see you; and in general they speak truth. I take pretty good care not to approach any house, with the smallest appearance of a design to eat or drink in it, unless I be quite sure of a cordial reception; but my friend at Fifield (it is in Milton parish) and all his family really seemed to be delighted beyond all expression.
自然（2）
The stars awaken a certain reverence, because though always present, they are inaccessible; but all natural objects make a kindred impression, when the mind is open to their influence. Nature never wears a mean appearance. Neither does the wisest man extort her secret, and lose his curiosity by finding out all her perfection. Nature never became a toy to a wise spirit. The flowers, the animals, the mountains, reflected the wisdom of his best hour, as much as they had delighted the simplicity of his childhood. When we speak of nature in this manner, we have a distinct but most poetical3 sense in the mind. We mean the integrity of impression made by manifold natural objects. It is this which distinguishes the stick of timber of the wood-cutter, from the tree of the poet. The charming landscape which I saw this morning, is indubitably made up of some twenty or thirty farms. Miller owns this field, Locke that, and Manning the woodland beyond. But none of them owns the landscape4. There is a property in the horizon which no man has but he whose eye can integrate all the parts, that is, the poet. This is the best part of these men’s farms, yet to this their warranty-deeds give no title. To speak truly, few adult persons can see nature. Most persons do not see the sun. At least they have a very superficial seeing. The sun illuminates5 only the eye of the man, but shines into the eye and the heart of the child. The lover of nature is he whose inward and outward senses are still truly adjusted to each other; who has retained the spirit of infancy even into the era of manhood. His intercourse with heaven and earth, becomes part of his daily food. In the presence of nature, a wild delight runs through the man, in spite of real sorrows. Nature says, he is my creature, and maugre all his impertinent griefs, he shall be glad with me. Not the sun or the summer alone, but every hour and season yields its tribute of delight; for every hour and change corresponds to and authorizes a different state of the mind, from breathless noon to grimmest midnight. Nature is a setting that fits equally well a comic or a mourning piece.
八月
[英国]查尔斯·狄更斯
■
查尔斯·狄更斯（1812—1870），英国著名散文家、小说家。早年以“Boz”为笔名在报章杂志上发表作品，文章深刻探讨社会病态、道德沦丧等现象。狄更斯一生创作了大量的作品，除了小说以外，他在散文、游记、诗歌等各种体裁上均有涉猎。但成就最高的还是长篇小说。其代表作有《双城记》《匹克威克外传》《大卫·科波菲尔》《荒凉山庄》《艰难时世》。
一年之中，没有任何一个月的自然风光比得过八月的风采。春天美不胜收，而五月也是—个清新、花开的月份，由于有冬季的对比，所以每年的此刻更显得魅力四射。八月就没有这样的优势。它来的时候，我们只记得明朗的天空、绿绿的田野，还有芳香四溢的花朵——记忆中的冰雪、寒风都已完全消失，仿佛它们在地球上了无踪迹——然而，八月是多么令人愉快的季节啊!果园和麦田到处都充溢着工作的声响；串串硕果压得果树都弯下了腰，枝条低垂到地面；还有玉米，有的一捆捆优雅地堆在一起，有的则迎着微风招展，仿佛等待收割，把景致染上淡淡的金黄色。整个大地似乎笼罩着醇美的柔和; 季节的影响，似乎伸展至那辆马车，它缓慢地驶过收割好的田地，这一切只有用肉眼才觉察得到，耳朵听不到刺耳的声音。
马车摇晃着，轻快地经过路边的田野与果园，一群群的妇女和孩子们，有的正将水果往筛子上堆，有的则在捡散落的玉米穗子，他们稍停了会儿手中的活，用深褐色的手遮在晒黑的脸上，以好奇的眼神望着乘客；一些结实的小顽童，太小还不能上学，但又不能把他们留在家中胡闹，原先被安置在篮子里是出于安全的考虑，这时也爬过了篮边，高兴得又踢又叫。收割的人停下了手里的活，双臂交叉地站着看马车通过；而毛茸茸的拖货车的马也睡眼惺忪地向那灵巧的马车队看了一眼，它的眼神很明白地表露出：“看看倒是不错，但在崎岖的田地上慢慢走，总比那么辛苦地工作要好，尤其是在尘土飞扬的路上。”当你拐过路角时，回头瞧瞧你的身后吧。妇女和孩子们又开始干活了：收割的人又弯下了腰，拖货车的马已继续前进。所有的一切又恢复了工作。
August
Charles Dickens
There is no month in the whole year, in which nature wears a more beautiful appearance than in the month of August. Spring has many beauties, and May is a fresh and blooming month, but the charms of this time of year are enhanced by their contrast with the winter season. August has no such advantage. It comes when we remember nothing but clear skies, green fields, and sweet-smelling flower—when the recollection of snow, and ice, and bleak winds, has faded from our minds as completely as they have disappeared from the earth—and yet what a pleasant time it is! Orchards and cornfields ring with the hum of labours; trees bend beneath the thick clusters of rich fruit which bow their branches to the ground; and the corn, piled in graceful sheaves, or waving in every light breath that sweeps above it, as if it wooed the sickle, tinges the landscape with a golden hue. A mellow softness appears to hang over the whole earth; the influence of the season seems to extend itself to the very wagon, whose slow motion across the well-reaped field, is perceptible only to the eye, but strikes with no harsh sound upon the ear.
As the coach rolls swiftly past the fields and orchards which skirt the road, groups of women and children, piling the fruit in sieves, or gathering the scattered ears of corn, pause for an instant from their labour, and shading the sunburnt face with a still browner hand, gaze upon the passengers with curious eyes, while some stout urchin, too small to work but too mischievous to be left at home, scrambles over the side of the basket in which he has been deposited for security, and kicks and screams with delight. The reaper stops in his work, and stands with folded arms, looking at the vehicle as it whirls past; and the rough cart-horses bestow a sleepy glance upon the smart coach team, which says, as plainly as a horse’s glance can, “It’s all very fine to look at, but slow going, over a heavy field, is better than warm work like that, upon a dusty road, after all.” You cast a look behind you, as you turn a corner of the road. The women and children have resumed their labour; the reaper once more stoops to his work; the cart-horses has moved on; and all are again in motion.
巴黎：浪漫之都（1）
佚名
啊，美丽的巴黎！数百年来，这座美丽的城市吸引着全世界的目光。它的诱惑力和魅力迷倒了慕名而来的所有游客。
你发现巴黎的魅力在哪里？是在法国历任统治者美化他们心爱的城市遗留的遗产中吗？还是在著名的城堡、宫殿、雕像或纪念碑中，比如埃菲尔铁塔？可以在世界级的博物馆中，如卢浮宫找到吗？或许，巴黎的诱惑力就在于巴黎人民的热情和独特的风格吧。
游览巴黎时，你不必把时间全部花在参观博物馆和纪念碑上。当然，这些确实值得你花点时间，可是就暂且忘记它们一天吧。先用点时间去四处看看，体验一下巴黎的生活吧。你会发现它的魅力。
沿着塞纳河漫步一会儿。顺便欣赏一下沿岸美术品卖主的华美绘画。偷看一下悉心照料的花园中精致的铁门。法国人对细节的独具慧眼，使得法国与高品位媲美，细心留意一下吧。你会在拱门或门口的设计上、在小的喷泉上和精巧的阳台上明白他们的独具匠心。无论你看到哪里，都能发现生活中的物品都被变成艺术杰作了。
花一点时间在一座宁静的公园，坐在陈旧的长椅上休息一下。或者，躺在青青的绿草上小睡一会。如果你想吃点什么，那就在路边的咖啡馆来点咖啡和糕饼吧。找个巴黎人闲聊一番，尽管，不是很容易。在这样一个国际性的人口大城市里，地道的巴黎本土人已经很难找到了。
夜幕降临在巴黎这个城市，迷雾在河岸的上空升腾，它的魅力也愈演愈烈。你可以听到附近露天音乐会上的音乐：古典的、爵士的，有歌剧，有小调，这是法国的民间歌曲。巴黎人都喜爱自己的音乐。星空是他们的礼堂。在城堡和教堂，你也可以听到音乐会。巴黎的音乐永远没有休止符。
不要错过巴黎傍晚最精彩的活动——去吃顿大餐。巴黎人以其烹饪技术为豪。不过，这里的烹饪的确不错，举世闻名。美食佳肴是生活中不可或缺的乐趣。你需要一本专门的指南书，指导你从数百家出色的饭店中进行挑选。法国的首都以其每个地域特色、乳酪和畅销全国的美酒而自豪。如果你实在不知该点什么，那就索要推荐菜谱吧。厨师总是将他们最拿手的列在上面。请记住，没进一家巴黎的法国餐馆吃一顿饭之前，你都没有品尝法国真实的风味。
享用完晚餐之后，到灯光闪烁的纪念碑走一趟。走过巴黎最古老的第九桥，就到达了城市之岛。巴黎最著名的标志性建筑——圣母院就在前方若隐若现。站在圣母院前面的广场上，在这里，你就正站在法国的中心。所有的距离都是从圣母院前面算起。法国的每条路都通向它的前门。所有法国国王和领导，都曾来到这里纪念重要的日子和表示感恩。圣母院不仅是巴黎的心脏，也是法国的心脏。
你在巴黎的旅行才刚刚开始。你才刚刚开始发现这座古城的魅力。你下面的旅程也一样难忘吗？等到归期来到，你将恋恋不舍。你用法语说，巴黎，后会有期！
■
浪漫之都——巴黎，有着悠久的文化底蕴。巴黎这个城市，当迷雾升腾时，她的魅力也愈演愈烈。还有巴黎的标志性建筑——巴黎圣母院。法国的首都——巴黎，饮食上也相当讲究。林林总总，巴黎留给我们的永远是无尽的遐思。
Paris: a Romantic Capital
Anonymous
Ah, beautiful Paris. For centuries this city has attracted the admiration of the world. The allure1 and charm of Paris captivate all who visit there.
Where can you discover the charm of Paris for yourself? Is it in the legacy of all the French rulers who worked to beautify their beloved city? Is it in the famous castles, palaces, statues and monuments2, such as the Eiffel Tower? Can you find it in the world-class museums, such as the Louvre? Perhaps Paris allure lies in the zest and style of the Parisians.
上架公告及充值方法
VIP充值方式详解！
亲爱的读者朋友，感谢在这段时间里支持本书，为了给予作者创作的支持，小说的后面章节将是VIP章节。所以大家如果喜欢这本小说，可以看下去，请继续支持，不过，后面内容需要付费才能阅读（本书为单本购买作品，1元即可阅读所有内容）。由于一些读者可能会如何成为VIP用户不了解。现在说明如下：
步骤一：注册新浪帐号，注册的地址是：http://login.sina.com.cn/cgi/register/reg_sso.php?entry=vipbook
步骤二：进入新浪读书个人中心，地址是：http://vip.book.sina.com.cn/userinfo/myhome.php
点左边第一栏的充值付费
步骤三：在右边的页面中选择充值付费的方式，有以下方式：
1、网银充值：网银充值无手续费，但需要预先开通网上银行的户头。
通过云网用网银进行充值，已开通的银行卡有：工商银行 建设银行 农业银行 中国银行 交通银行 兴业银行 招商银行 华夏银行 广东发展银行 深圳发展银行 民生银行 （注意：浦发、中信等银行的的支付未开通）
2、短信充值：移动或联通的手机可发短信1元、2元充值，方便快捷，但要收取50%的手续费
3、手机钱包充值：开通手机钱包后，移动和联通都可以一次充值5元或15元，每个月限充2次，同样要收50%的手续费。
4、*固定电话充值：按新浪的提示，拨打电信服务号码16839918，根据语音提示操作！使用电信固定电话新浪读书账户充值，支付平台会扣除55%的交易手续费。（手续费比较高，请大家谨慎选用）
5、神州行手机充值卡代支付：买张神州行充值卡照页面上的提示输入卡号和密码就可立即充值，非常方便，手续费是15%或19%，还可以接受。
6、新浪读书点卡充值：1，新浪商城已有10元面值的点卡出售，无手续费，可到以下地址购买，即买即用：http://mall.sina.com.cn/P/4/3103/8688/1333731.htm（购买方式按照新浪商城的提示进行）。
7、支付宝充值：开通支付宝后，选择充值渠道列表中的支付宝充值，输入您的支付宝账号和要充值的金额后，点击确定。接下来页面会转到支付宝平台，按提示输入您的支付宝密码，就可以为您的新浪账号直接充入读书币。
【手机阅读充值方式】
目前，手机新浪读书和互联网新浪通行证开放账户互通功能，手机新浪网的虚拟货币升级为U币。无论您是手机用户还是新浪通行证用户，均可登录任意平台使用新浪网读书频道为您提供的服务。
U币作为手机新浪网的通用货币，可以用于VIP读书、游戏等不同产品；VIP读书每千字需支付币。您使用电脑和手机均可对您自己或朋友的账户充值，充值的U币即可在手机新浪网消费，也可以在互联网消费。
大家可以根据自己的情况选择充值方式，充值时请记住自己的订单号，如果您在使用过程中有疑问或问题，请您联系新浪客服，客服会及时帮您解答：周一至周五，每天9:00至18:00，拨打新浪全国统一客服热线：95105670按2(按市话费标准收费)
读书频道网友意见反馈
[英国]乔治·斯莱思·斯特里特
■
乔治·斯莱思·斯特里特（1867—1936），英国作家，散文家，是一个写小品文的能手。在本篇中，作者通过切身的体验，描述了他对世界闻名的雾都——伦敦的感受。
无论它是美还是不美，伦敦的雾总是有值得大书特书的地方。它能给我们带来每时每刻都需要的那种“变化”。最初，这个世界几乎是白茫茫的一片，然后，慢慢地一点一点地清晰起来，这和我们平常所见完全不同。这时，就算是最愚蠢的人也不会察觉不到眼前的景物起了变化。这种变化之大，绝不亚于从伦敦到格拉斯哥。又比如，回到家里或来到俱乐部，这种平凡单调的日常琐事，在雾天也几乎成为惊人的壮举，完成之后不免要深深地松一口气，自幸安全脱险——这时人们至少得到一种不同寻常的新鲜感。这时我们已经不像是一个到俱乐部去玩的人，而像是一个航行遇险的海员在命悬一线之际，终于得救，并且受到一群以前非常淡漠而这时却非常激动的侍者们的热烈欢迎。的确，一场迷雾带给伦敦人的变化非常之大，比去里维埃拉避雾度假所带来的变化都要大。其次，雾还能使人的善良之心和喜悦之情充分表现出来，这是伦敦人引以为荣的两大特点。当然，它也会把富人的那种极度的自私自利揭露出来。那些几乎是无忧无虑地活在世上的人，自然会因为这点小小不便或痛哭流涕，或咒骂不已。但是为生计奔波的伦敦人，比如那些马车夫和汽车夫，比如你和我，却会把我们那种欢快心情充分展现出来。某个星期一，我在海德公园拐角那个街区的一辆公共汽车顶端乘坐过半个小时，并与司机攀谈。人们往往对一个汽车司机感到失望，因为他们认为他应该会说会骂，而他却没有这类长处。但是我们应该看到，这是个工作非常辛苦但却又非常快乐的人，非常勤快，服务周到，笑口常开。他在自己的工作上是个行家——这点在雾天最能突出显现出来，而他对工作的高熟练程度，对于那种凭借经验，总以为从事实际行业的人来说，往往不是愚蠢就是冒失，因而对于绝大多数都不称职的人士来说，总是一件快事吧。最后我离开他时，他的副手引我绕过车轮马蹄，一直把我送到人行道上。这时我有一种感觉，觉得我周围的确都是好人。上周日的晚上，我曾步行一英里回到我的寓所，一路上，我每碰到一个人就向他问路。但是没有一个人给予粗鲁甚至仓促的回答：每个人都是彬彬有礼，俏皮风趣，谈古论今，有说有笑。我们这个民族确实是个友好的民族，有必要通过一场雾来体会这一点。雾的另外一种乐趣，与我们听到某个百万富翁摔断了腿时所感到的那种乐趣相差无几，只是比较温和而已。那种命运特别好的人往往并不快乐，即使健康良好也不能把它驱除掉。在某个街区的一辆宽敞的布鲁厄姆马车上坐着一位派头十足的老头，他口吐白沫。看到这个情景，人们不禁会想，在这件事上，命运总算暂时是公平的。
这些就是我们在一场伦敦的雾中所找到的一些乐趣。
■
人生如雾，雾如人生。雾意正浓时，叫人不知如何是好，只能在雾中游荡。云开雾散时，前面的方向豁然开朗，一切都变得清晰明朗。作者通过切身的感触，深入形象地描绘出了雾都伦敦的景象。一场迷雾带给伦敦人的变化的确很大，它不仅能使人的善良之心和喜悦之情充分表现出来，它也把富人的自私自利暴露了出来，可谓是人间百态尽在雾中展现。
Fog
G. S. Street
Beauty or none, there is much to be said for a London fog. It gives us all that “change” which we are always needing. When our world is all but invisible, and growing visible bit by bit looks utterly different from its accustomed1 self, the stupidest of us all can hardly fail to observe a change for our eyes at least as great as there would have been in going to Glasgow. When, arriving at one’s house or one’s club; that monotonous2 diurnal incident seems an almost incredible feat, accomplished with profound relief and gratitude for a safe deliverance, one has at least an unaccustomed sensation. One is not a man going into his club, but a mariner saved from shipwreck3 at the last gasp, to be greeted with emotion by erst4 indifferent waiters. Yes, a fog gives Londoners a more thorough change than going to the Riviera to avoid it. Then it brings out the kindness and cheerfulness, which are their prime claim to honour, into strong relief. True, it also throws into relief the incomparable egoism of the prosperous among them. People with no serious cares or worries in the world of course bemoan and upbraid this trifling inconvenience. But the working, struggling Londoners, cabmen and busmen, you and I, display our indomitable5 good-humour to advantage. I stayed on top of a bus for half an hour in the block on Monday at Hyde Park Corner and talked with the driver. People are often disappointed in a bus-driver because they expect a wit and a pretty swearer. They find neither, but they find an overworked man of extraordinary cheerfulness, responsive, ready to laugh. He is master of his business—a fact emphasised by the fog—to a degree refreshing to one whose experience of men professing some practical calling is that the great majority, some from mere stupidity, some from over-hasty enthusiasm, are quite incompetent. When finally I left him, his mate piloted me through wheels and horses to the pavement, and I felt I had been among folk who deserve to live. On Sunday night I walked a mile to my abode, and made a point of asking my whereabouts of every one I met. Not one churlish or even hurried answer: politeness, jokes, reminiscences, laughter. We are a kindly people, and it is worth a fog to know it. Another pleasure of a fog is a mild but extended form of the pleasure we feel when we hear that a millionaire has broken his leg. The too fortunate are suffering a discontent health cannot remove. There was in that block a fat brougham containing an important-looking old man who foamed at the mouth, and one reflected that there was a temporary equality of fortunes.
Such are the pleasures we may take in a London fog.
巴黎：浪漫之都（2）
When you visit Paris, you don’t have to spend all of your time visiting museums and monuments. They are certainly worthy of your time, but ignore them for a day. First take some time to look around and experience life in Paris. You’ll find it charming.
Take a stroll3 along the Seine River. Browse through the art vendors’ colorful paintings. Peek through delicate iron gates at the well-kept gardens. Watch closely for the French attention to detail that has made France synonymous with good taste. You will see it in the design of a doorway or arch and in the little fountains and quaint balconies. No matter where you look, you will find everyday objects transformed into works by art.
Spend some time in a quiet park relaxing on an old bench. Lie on your back on the green grass. When you need refreshment, try coffee and pastries at a sidewalk cafe. Strike up a conversation with a Parisian. This isn’t always easy, though. With such a large international population living in Paris, true natives are hard to find these days.
As evening comes to Paris, enchantment rises with the mist over the riverfront. You may hear music from an outdoor concert nearby: classical, jazz, opera or chansons4, those French folk songs. Parisians love their music. The starry sky is their auditorium. You can also hear concerts in the chateaux and cathedrals. In Paris the Music never ends.
Don’t miss the highlight of Paris evening, eating out. Parisians are proud of their cuisine. And rightly so; it’s world famous. Gourmet dining is one of the indispensable joys of living. You need a special guidebook to help you choose one of the hundreds of excellent restaurants. The capital of France boasts every regional specialty, cheese and wine the country has to offer, if you don’t know what to order, ask for the suggested menu. The chef likes to showcase his best dishes there. Remember, you haven’t tasted the true flavor of France until you’ve dined at a French restaurant in Paris.
After your gourmet dinner, take a walking tour of the floodlit monuments. Cross the Pont Neuf, the oldest bridge in the city, to the lie de la Cite. The most famous landmark of Paris looms up in front of you. The Notre Dame Cathedral (Cathedral of Our Lady). Stand in the square in front of the cathedral. Here, you are standing in the center of France. All distances are measured from the front of Notre Dame. Every road in France leads to her front door. All French kings and leaders have journeyed here to commemorate important occasions and give thanks. Notre Dame is the heart of Paris and the heart of France.
Your visit in Paris has only just begun. You’ve just started to discover the charm of this old city. May the rest of your journey be unforgettable? When it is time to leave, you will go reluctantly. You will say with the French, “A bientot, Paris, a bientot!” (See you again soon, Paris!)
免费看VIP章节攻略
登录后进入个人中心，点击左侧的交易大厅，看一下当前拍卖积分的平均价格，然后根据自己的实际情况发起交易，选择拍卖读书积分，通过寄卖积分可以获得一定数额的U币，积分的售卖价格不是一成不变的，而是根据市场需求不断调整。
积分的获取途径包括：每日登录新浪读书、给你喜欢的作品投票、在书评区发表评论。
一个完全相反的地方
[法国]阿尔伯特·卡缪
■
阿尔伯特·卡缪（1913—1960），法国作家，生于阿尔及利亚的蒙多维，幼年丧父，生活贫困但学习刻苦并获哲学学士学位。1935年开始从事戏剧活动，一生钟爱戏剧创作。主要剧本有《误会》《卡利古拉》等，除了剧本，卡缪还创作了很多著名小说，中篇小说《局外人》是他的成名作，也是荒诞小说的代表作。1957年获诺贝尔文学奖。这篇文章是借对小镇景物的刻画，对人类盲目追逐商业文明的控诉。
让我们承认那个小镇的丑陋。它的气氛做作、平静，而且，你需要花时间去发现，它为何与世界其他地方的许多商业中心有所不同。你如何能想象这样的一种景致，如，一个没有鸽子、没有任何树木或花园的小镇，在这里听不见鸟儿振翅或树叶的沙沙声——简而言之，这是一个完全相反的地方。在这里季节只能依靠天空来辨别。春天的来临也只能通过空气来感觉，或是由小贩从郊区带来的一篮篮的花儿来感知；春天在市场上被叫卖着。在夏天里，房子被太阳烘得干透，灰色的尘埃布满了墙壁，你别无选择，只有躲在拉上的百叶窗后，在室内逃避那些炙热的日子。秋天则泥沙泛滥。只有冬季带来真正愉悦的气候。
也许，了解一个城镇最简单的方法，是了解它的市民如何工作，如何恋爱和如何死亡。在我们的小镇上(不知是否受了天气的影响)这三件事在同样灼热难耐却已司空见惯的空气中，以极为相同的方式完成。实际上，每个人都觉得无聊，便投入到各自爱好的培养中。我们的市民都努力工作，但唯一的目标是发财。他们最主要的兴趣是商业，而生活之首要目的，就如他们自己所说的，是“做生意”。自然，他们也免不了一些像海浴、看电影等简单的娱乐。但是，他们非常明智地把这些消遣留到周六下午与周日，而其他时间却尽可能地用来赚钱。黄昏，他们离开办公室，会在固定的时间里聚集在咖啡馆，在相同的林荫大道上散步，或是在阳台上透透气。年轻人的热情强烈但为时不长；年长者的不良嗜好很少超出沉溺于保龄球、宴会和社交的范围，或者是沉湎于那种打出一张牌，就能赚大笔钱的俱乐部。
A Thoroughly Negative Place
Albert Camus
The town itself, let us admit, is ugly. It has a smug, placid air and you need time to discover what it is that makes it different from so many business centers in other parts of the world. How to conjure up a picture, for instance, of a town without pigeons, without any trees or gardens, where you never hear the beat of wings or the rustle of leaves—a thoroughly negative place, in short? The seasons are discriminated only in the sky. All that tells you of spring’s coming is the feel of the air, or the baskets of flowers brought in from the suburbs by peddlers; it’s a spring cried in the market-places. During the summer the sun bakes the houses bone-dry, sprinkles our walls with grayish dust, and you have no option but to survive those days of fire indoors, behind closed shutters. In autumn, on the other hand, we have deluges of mud. Only winter brings really pleasant weather.
Perhaps the easiest way of making a town’s acquaintance is to ascertain how the people in it work, how they love, and how they die. In our little town (is this, one wonders, an effect of the climate?) all three are done on much the same lines, with the same feverish yet casual air. The truth is that everyone is bored, and devotes himself to cultivating habits. Our citizens work hard, but solely with the object of getting rich. Their chief interest is in commerce, and their chief aim in life is, as they call it, “doing business”. Naturally they don’t eschew such simpler pleasures as sea-bathing, going to the pictures. But, very sensibly, they reserve these pastimes for Saturday afternoons and Sundays and employ the rest of the week in making money, as much as possible. In the evening, on leaving the office, they forgather, at an hour that never varies, in the cafes, stroll the same boulevard, or take the air on their balconies. The passions of the young are violent and short-lived; the vices of older men seldom range beyond an addiction to bowling, to banquets and “socials”, or clubs where large sums change hands on the fall of a card.
这里是纽约（1）
[美国]埃·布·怀特
■
埃·布·怀特（1899—1985），美国著名散文家、评论家。生于纽约，毕业于康奈尔大学。他曾任《纽约人》杂志的编辑和《哈帕斯》的专栏作家，为《纽约人》供职长达12年之久，《纽约人》的成功他有着不可替代的贡献。同时，怀特在儿童读物的创作上也颇有建树，其代表作有《这里是纽约》。怀特思想敏感独特，对生活的观察细致入微，文风朴素无华，尤其是一些游记性的文章，被广泛转载于大量的课本与选本之中。其主要作品有散文集《拐角处的第二棵树》、诗集《冷漠的女士》等。
假使有谁求取孤独和退隐这样奇怪的奖品，纽约同样会大方地让他达成心愿。正是因为这种大方的气质，各方人士才汇集到纽约城。曼哈顿的居民大多都是外乡人，他们从很远的地方搬到这里，为的就是找寻梦想的家园、自身价值的体现或某些或大或小的抱负。纽约的神秘之处恰恰在于创造了各种看似不可能的可能。它可以毁灭一个人，也可以让这个人飞黄腾达。完全由运气主导。假如一个人不乐意祈求好运，那他最好就不要来纽约生活。
纽约浓缩了艺术、商业、体育、宗教、娱乐和金融的精髓。在这袖珍般的土地上，角斗士、布道者、推销商、演员、证券投机者和商人等纷纷亮相，展示着自己的本领。它处处显露出挥之不去的传统气息，因此不管你坐在纽约的哪个地方，你都可以感受到伟大的时代和各种丰功伟绩、千奇百怪的人物及事件所带来的震撼。此时在度的高温下，我正坐在纽约城中一间燥热的酒店房间内。在这间悬在半空的房间里，空气静止了一般，但我的情绪却不明来由地被周围散发的某种东西所影响。我清楚，自己所在的地方离鲁道夫·瓦伦蒂诺的长眠之地有22个街区；离纳森·黑尔英勇牺牲处有8个街区；离当年欧内斯特·海明威拳打马克斯·伊斯曼的出版大楼有5个街区；离沃尔特·惠特曼奋笔疾书为“布鲁克林之鹰”撰写评论的住所有4英里；离维拉·凯瑟搬来纽约从事内布拉斯加系列作品写作之时，所住的大街有34个街区；离马塞林过去表演杂耍的马戏场仅一街之隔；离当年历史学家裘·古尔德在众人面前脚踢收音机的地方，有36个街区；离哈里·肖枪击斯坦福·怀特的地点有13个街区；离我以前做引导员的大都会歌剧院有5个街区；离当年克拉伦斯·戴的忏悔之所——显圣殿，也仅112个街区(仅举几个例子)。正是由于这些原因，此时，我或许就待在那些尊贵而值得怀念的人们曾眷恋过的地方。或许，在那些酷热、阴沉的午后，他们中的某个人——虽然寂寞无聊——却曾经和我一样在这周围的景色中荡漾。
几分钟前，我下楼吃饭时，发现在我旁边(大约18英寸外挨墙的地方)坐着的是弗雷德·斯通。18英寸的距离，是纽约为其居民规定的人与人之间的规范性距离，在给人亲近感的同时，又好像远隔万里。我和弗雷德·斯通曾见过一面。大概在20世纪初的时候，我曾在《绿野仙踪》中看过他的表演。而我们的服务生则因为可以直接接触“稻草人”先生，便自认为与他有某种联系。当斯通先生离开饭店后，这名服务生告诉我，自己还是个年轻小伙时，也就是刚到纽约那会儿，对英语一窍不通。他和女朋友第一次去剧院约会，当时放映的影片就是《绿野仙踪》。服务生回忆说，演出很美妙，剧中那个微不足道的稻草人被演得活灵活现。服务生(仍然保持只有18英寸的距离)好像很认真地说：“斯通先生吃得可真多”，而且一想到终于和“稻草人”先生有了一点联系，便很心满意足。
纽约不但带给人孤寂，又赋予人们分享的快乐。与世界上其他大都市相比，纽约有一个优势，那就是虽然这里时时刻刻都发生着惊天动地却美妙无比的事情，它却能确保让每一个人(如果这个人想的话，我想人们大都希望如此)远离干扰。自从我踏进这空气混浊的房间起，城里已发生了很多重大事件。一名男子出于妒忌，用枪杀死了自己的妻子。除了事发公寓，在其他地方并未引起什么轰动，报上也只草草写了几行文字。我也没有在意。自我来这儿以后，纽约举办过全球最盛大的航空展。尽管我听别人说，现场人山人海，可我没去参加，纽约八百万人口中的大部分人也没参加。除了只有几架平日里常常从屋顶上掠过向西飞去的商业飞机，我居然没听到其他飞机的声音。在北大西洋上航行的世界上最大的远洋船来来往往，我没有注意这些船，大部分纽约人也没有。据说，纽约港是全球最大的海港，码头区长达650英里，进港的船只来自许多满是异国情调的国家。然而，自从我来了以后，我只见过一艘船，那是前天晚上走过布鲁克林大桥时，一艘在退潮时沿东河迎风破浪的单桅小帆船。的确，有一天子夜，我曾听到过“玛丽女王”的笛声，但那声音饱含了过多的伤感、渴望和失落。那些社会权贵们已经开过了集体会议，但我一个权贵也没有看到。一位朋友倒是看到了其中的一位，还向我描述了他的外貌(此人保守得很，身着一件西班牙式的敞胸短上衣)。纽约的球场和马场上，以前曾上演过规模宏大的赛事，可我没看到棒球手，也没有看到赛马。州长光顾过这儿，我听到过警笛长鸣，但也仅仅是到此为止——这次又是那18英寸的距离阻断人们的联系。掉下的门楣会把人砸死。此事与我毫无干系。那18英寸的距离又一次扮演了卑劣的角色。
